Computing is transitioning from single-user devices to the Internet of Things (IoT), in which multiple users with complex social relationships interact with a single device. Recent years have seen a proliferation of Internet of Things (IoT) devices intended for consumers' homes, including Samsung SmartThings [35], the Amazon Echo voice assistant [2], the Nest Thermostat [48], Belkin's Wemo devices [5], and Philips Hue lights [32]. Surprisingly little attention has been paid to accesscontrol-policy specification (expressing which particular users, in which contexts, are permitted to access a resource) or authentication (verifying that users are who they claim to be) in the home IoT. For example, mischievous children [38], parents curious about what their teenagers are doing [44], and abusive romantic partners [29] are all localized threats amplified in home IoT environments.Furthermore, few IoT devices have screens or keyboards [37], so users cannot just type a password. A Burger King TV commercial triggered Google Home voice assistants to read Wikipedia pages about the Whopper [47], while the cartoon South Park mischievously triggered Amazon Echo voice assistants to fill viewers' Amazon shopping carts with risqué items [34]. While these examples were relatively harmless, one could imagine a rogue child remotely controlling the devices in a sibling's room to annoy them, a curious babysitter with temporary access to a home perusing a device's history of interactions, or an enterprising burglar asking a voice assistant through a cracked window to unlock the front door [42]. For household members of six different relationships (e. g., spouse, child, babysitter), the participant specified when that person should be allowed to use that capability. Finally, to identify promising directions for designing authentication mechanisms in the home IoT, we asked:RQ4: What types of authentication methods balance convenience and security, holding the potential to successfully balance the consequences of falsely allowing and denying access? Analyzing consequences participants noted for falsely allowing or denying access to capabilities, we identify a spectrum of methods that seem promising for authenticating users (Section 7), thereby enabling enforcement of users' desired access-control policies for the home IoT.Contributions We begin to reenvision access control and authentication for the home IoT through a 425-participant user study. Insiders might be motivated to subvert a smart-home system's access controls for reasons ranging from curiosity to willful disobedience (e.g., a child attempting to take actions forbidden by their parents), or to attempt to correct imbalances created by the introduction of devices whose surveillance implications grant asymmetric power to certain members of a household (e. g., a parent tracking a teenager [44]). While most current devices do not allow for access-control policies that distinguish by capability, Samsung SmartThings lets users restrict third-party apps from accessing certain capabilities [36]. We find that restricting users, not just apps, access to a particular capability is necessary.From this analysis, we found current mechanisms to be rudimentary and lack the necessary vocabulary for specifying access-control rules in complex, multi-user environments. Prior work has focused on the difficulties of access control in the home [4,24,25,30], rather than solutions. We build on this work, identifying desired access-control rules for home IoT devices and bringing both relationships between home occupants and devices' individual capabilities to the forefront.Prior research on IoT authentication has focused on protocols (e.g., Kerberos-like frameworks [1,27]) without considering the constraints of users. We chose this list of 24 relationships based on existing users and groups in discretionary access control (DAC) systems and common social relationships in households.We conducted the pre-study with 31 participants on Amazon's Mechanical Turk. We used these results to generate a list of capabilities, grouping similar functionalities across devices into categories like viewing the current state of a device. Appendix B gives the full list of capabilities and the descriptions participants saw.We then presented the participant with one of six relationships: spouse; teenage child; child in elementary school; visiting family member; babysitter; neighbor. To better understand the importance of an authentication method correctly identifying the person in question and the system correctly enforcing the access-control policy, we asked participants who answered "always" or "never" to state how much of an inconvenience it would be if the system incorrectly denied or allowed (respectively) that particular user access to that capability. We asked about the following factors: the time of day; the location of the person relative to the device (e.g., in the same room); the age of the person; who else is currently at home; the cost of performing that action (e.g., cost of electricity or other monetary costs); the current state of the device; the location of the device in the home; the person's recent usage of the device. Some participants (19 %) reported majoring, earning a degree, or holding a job in computer science or a related field.The majority of our participants (67 %) live in a singlefamily home, while 25 % live in an apartment. However, participants were much more willing to let others play music (32.5 % of participants choose never averaged across the six relationships, σ = 0.33, median = 23.7 %) than order things online (59.7 % choose never on average, σ = 0.40, median = 71.1 %) (FET, p < .05 for the teenager, child, and visiting family member relationships). Another example of differing opinions across capabilities within a single device include deleting an IoT lock's activity logs and answering the door, viewing the current state of the lock, and setting rules for the lock. Across relationships, participants were permissive about capabilities like answering the door (25.6 % chose "never" averaged across all relationships other than children, σ = 0.33, median = 16, 7 %). In contrast, 76.8 % of participants said they would never allow others to delete activity logs (σ = 0.28, median = 92.1 %). Relationships play an important role in participants' preferred access-control policies.A) Babysitter vs. Visiting Family In the pre-study, we identified the babysitter and a visiting family member to be members of a guest-like group. We introduced participants to a list of relationships (e.g., neighbor) and asked them to choose whether someone of that relationship should be permitted to "always," "sometimes," or "never" control a capability (e.g., adjust the camera angle) in their smart home.relationships share some trust with the homeowner, while neither lives in the same household.In general, policies toward a visiting family member are slightly more permissive than policies toward a babysitter. Though both children and teenagers are under a parent or guardian's watch, a teenager (presented as 16 years old) and a child (presented as 8 years old) were given very different access scopes. After removing the five capabilities that are not applicable to a child (whom we assume lacks a smartphone), for twelve of the seventeen remaining capabilities teenagers were given greater access (FET, all p < .05). For instance, one participant, who selected never for the capability of seeing which door is currently locked or unlocked, wrote: "An elementary school child should not be leaving the house on his own accord." Averaged across all capabilities, only 18.1 % of participants (σ = 0.12, median = 13.2 %) chose always for visiting family members, 10.3 % for babysitters (σ = 0.09, median = 7.9 %), 8.3 % for children (σ = 0.10, median = 5.6 %) and 0.7 % for neighbors (σ = 0.03, median = 0 %). Averaged across all capabilities, 93.5 % of participants (σ = 0.09, median = 95.3 %) agreed to always give access to their spouse, while only 4.15 % (σ = 0.05, median = 0 %) answered sometimes, and 2.35 % (σ = 0.06, median = 0 %) said never. C) Ordering Online The capability to make an online purchase was generally limited to spouses only; 78.9 % of participants said that only their spouse should always be allowed to make online purchases, but 84.2 % also said that it was acceptable for non-spouse users to do the same if given explicit permission by the homeowner. D) Administrative Capabilities By default, only spouses should be able to access administrative capabilities, such as adding users, connecting new devices, and installing software updates. While we did not observe significant differences for the "People Nearby", "Cost" and "Usage History" contextual factors across capabilities, we did observe significant differences for the other five contextual factors.A) Age The age of the user was the most influential factor on average across the eight capabilities (78.1 % on average, σ = 0.13, median = 78.3 %), and the proportion of participants for whom age mattered varied across capabilities (p = 0.040). Participants reflected this by saying, for example, "I can see where a guest/house-sitter/baby-sitter might need to access a view of outside or the garage but not inside." "Play music" (68.4 %) and lawnmower-related capabilities (64.7 % for creating rules for the mower, 68.2 % for turning lawn mower on/off remotely) were particularly sensitive to the time of the day. For cases where participants did indicate that cost is a concern, their interpretation was based on the cost of the good purchased, rather than the electricity used in placing an order. G) People Nearby 43.6% of participants (σ = 0.09, median = 43.6 %) indicated that who else is nearby might impact their accesscontrol decision. H) State of Device The current state of device was overall the least important factor in participants' access-control decisions on average (mean = 23.7 %, σ = 0.11, median = 22.3 %), though this importance did differ across capabilities (p = 0.044). A) Neighbor false allows a major inconvenience Across all capabilities, 64.1 % of the participants stated that it is a major inconvenience if the authorization system gives access to their neighbor by accident. D) Shopping / lawn mowers forbidden for children Among all capabilities, incorrectly allowing a young child to order online (79 % a major inconvenience) and create rules for the lawn mower (70.6 %) were the two capabilities where false allows for a child raised great concern. Figure 4 (bottom) visualizes the full results.A) Participants Did Not Want to be Locked Out Lock-related capabilities raised the most concern (63.9 % of responses for "Lock State" and 58.8 % for "Lock Rule" found falsely denying access major inconveniences). B) Spouses and Trust Issues One common reason why participants gave full access to their spouse is because they believe two people in a marriage should be equal, which means two parties should have the same access to a system. Therefore, if their spouse is accidentally rejected by the system, it could raise trust issues and spur arguments within the marriage. Spouses tend to be users with the highest levels of access, generally equivalent to administrators in traditional computing systems. Based on our study, at the minimum context should include: Time, User Location, Age, People Nearby, Cost of Resource, Device State, Device Location, and Usage History. They are inconvenient, however, for temporary visitors because they require the visitor to install an app and the owner to authorize them.Wearable devices like watches, glasses, and even clothing [18] might serve as proxy devices with more natural interactions than a smartphone. From a false positive/negative perspective, biometrics require quite a bit of tuning that can affect an owner's choice of using this method, especially when authenticating high-access spouses or for operating dangerous equipment like lawn mowers.Voice assistants are increasingly ubiquitous in homes. Bilateral or continuous authentication mechanisms embody the idea that a user has to be: (a) physically present, and (b) currently using the device [20,28]. • Lights On/Off: Remotely control whether a light is currently on, as well as how bright it is (e. g., on a smartphone, from anywhere). However, they don't know how to use some more complex features properly, like changing the settings, but it doesn't discourage them from trying. You grew up together, but now you meet each other once or twice a year, because you live far away from each other. Introduction Computing is transitioning from single-user devices, such as laptops and phones, to the Internet of Things, in which many users will interact with a particular device, such as an Amazon Echo or Internet-connected door lock. Our goal is to develop techniques and interfaces that enable accurate access control and authentication in multi-user IoT environments, based on user preferences.Participation should take about 20 minutes.In recent years, many internet-connected ("smart") home devices and appliances have entered the market. The next button will not appear until you have spent at least 30 seconds on each page.In this survey, we will ask whether you will allow people of the following relationships to control a particular feature of a smart device: your spouse; your teenage child; your child in elementary school; a visiting family member; a babysitter; your neighbor. Not important Slightly important Moderately important Very important Extremely important In contrast, when should they not be allowed to use this feature? You specify that certain people can access the following feature only sometimes: [capability] Might the location of the person relative to the device (e. g., in the same room, not in the house, etc.) affect your decision on whether certain people can or cannot use this particular feature?