A recent study by Google showed that 98% of surveyed Internet users in the U.S. use multiple devices on a daily basis, and 90% switch devices sequentially to accomplish a task over time [37]. While we examine cross-device tracking via HTTP cookies, pixel tags, and other traditional mechanisms, such tracking can also occur via ultrasound signals [7,31,59] or other side channels, which we do not examine here.As some cross-device companies match billions of devices [22] and social networks have cross-device functionality naturally built into their systems lawmakers began to take notice. As evidenced by a recent case on cross-device tracking via ultrasound signals and the withdrawal of the service from the U.S. market, the FTC is determined to enforce the existing laws and regulations [31,32], however, is hampered by insufficient insight into the used technologies [30]. We make publicly available a cross-device tracking dataset as well as software that we used for collecting the data. Using IP addresses, web domains, and app domains our techniques achieve an F-1 score of 0.91 on the collected data. Our study is based on work in online tracking ( § 2.1), humancomputer interaction ( § 2.2), and machine learning ( § 2.3). In particular, we provide statistical support for the occurrence of cross-device tracking ( § 3), evaluate cross-device tracking techniques ( § 5), analyze the potential increase in learning power from cross-device data ( § 6), and examine the penetration of cross-device trackers ( § 7); all on real user data ( § 4). In addition, Zarras et al. [85] performed a large-scale study on the security of ad serving, and Meng et al. [61] presented an ad fraud attack that enables publishers to increase their ad revenue. Specifically, they found that a median of 75.4% of the domains viewed on the phone were also viewed on the desktop, and a median of 13.1% of the domains viewed on the desktop were also viewed on the phone. While the sharing of devices can also principally impact cross-device companies' ability to track users across those, Matthew et al.'s study [58] found that phones were never shared among multiple individuals for mutual use, and computers were shared moderately. In 2015, Drawbridge [22], an ad network specialized on cross-device tracking, hosted the ICDM 2015: Drawbridge Cross-Device Connections competition asking competition participants to leverage machine learning techniques to correlate devices to users [23]. Our evaluation of tracking techniques broadens this research and is centered on privacy implications.The first place solution of Walthers [82], which reached an F-0.5 score of 0.9, is in some ways representative for the Figure 3: Selected ads served to the desktop browser after visiting the sites in Figure 2 on the mobile browser. In order to evaluate the occurrence of cross-device tracking in the wild we conducted an exploratory case study. Using a fresh desktop browser without any user data we visited the homepages of five randomly selected news websites from the Alexa rankings [4]-aol.com, latimes.com, nytimes.com, wsj.com, and washingtonpost.com (the test homepages). We also set up a desktop device with a fresh browser connected to a different router and modem as control instance. Fig- ure 3 shows the ads and associated information, that is, the name of the ad (e.g., PetSmart), the domain on which it was served (e.g., nytimes.com), the domain of the ad server (e.g., adsense.com), the ad network serving the ad (e.g., Google AdSense), and the involved cross-device tracking provider (e.g., Google Display Network). Then, based on an exact one-tailed permutation test, as recommended [81], we compared the ad distribution served on the desktop browser to the ad distribution served on the desktop control browser. We built our data collection system such that interested users could sign up on our project website, at which point we also took a device fingerprint for each signed up device. We asked users to supply basic information on their demographics (e.g., age and gender), interests (e.g., finance, games, shopping) [36], and personas (e.g., avid runners, bookworms, pet owners) [84]. 7 On the desktop side we provided users of all operating systems with data collection browser extensions for Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, and Opera. As shown by the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles, the median user accessed the mobile web only for 17 days visiting only 31 unique domains. In order to get an understanding of their capabilities we designed an algorithm and evaluated features and parameters informed by a review of public materials, particularly, Adelphic's cross-device patent [83] and Tapad's patent application for managing associations between device identifiers [80]. From a graph-theoretical perspective a device graph can be built from connected 9 One user did not submit a mobile fingerprint and another user submitted two different desktop fingerprints.Figure 5: Our cross-device tracking approach. While deterministic cross-device companies can simply match a user's devices based on his or her login information, which may also extend towards third party properties through single sign-on functionality, achieving a high match rate is more difficult for probabilistic cross-device tracking companies. To evaluate the similarity between a mobile and a desktop device it compares mobile to desktop IP addresses, mobile to desktop web URLs, and mobile apps to desktop web URLs. As shown in Table 4, running all three stages of the algorithm consecutively on our test set leads to precision, recall, and To make the matching more difficult we included in each run of our algorithm in every stage data from users for which we only had data from one device type: data from one user who only submitted mobile data and from 18 users who only submitted desktop data. Particularly, we believe that mismatches might happen for people living in the same household (in case of mobile IP to desktop IP similarity) or individuals having the same interests (in case of web domain and app to web domain similarity). Some users can be better matched based on IP addresses and others on web domains or apps.We note that we leveraged a manual mapping between apps and desktop domains via company names or other common identifiers thereby transforming a feature with minimal effect in our dataset and the Drawbridge competition [14,48,50,53,62,71,75,82] to a useful feature. However, we can make an argument that lends some supports for the applicability of our results to larger datasets.Whether web data can be correlated across devices rests on two premises: first, users visiting an intersecting set of domains on both their mobile and desktop devices and, second, domains being sufficiently distinct to allow identification of users. To examine the first premise we randomly selected 50 U.S. domains out of the top 5K sites that were quantified by Quantcast [70] and found a mean of 17.1% users visiting a website both on a mobile and desktop device (during a 30-day period and at the 95% confidence level with a lower bound of 14.4% and an upper bound of 19.5% using the bootstrap technique). The only other cross-device tracking dataset we know of was made available by Drawbridge to participants of the Drawbridge competition solely for competition purposes [23]. However, as we implemented key design elements that we found in available industry materials, we believe that our results provide a first approximation for cross-device tracking approaches applied in practice.There are various considerations of identifying and correlating devices in practice that we cannot meaningfully test. A first point concerns the time period for which users are being tracked. Also, despite some cross-device companies' broad coverage of websites and apps ( § 7), none of them has access to complete IP, web, and app data of Internet users. Using desktop data only we tried to increase the performance to the level of the combined mobile and desktop data, which : Logistic regression for predicting interest in finance from mobile web domains and apps (Mob) and desktop web domains (Desk). For both interest in finance and the value shopper persona we evaluated to which extent users respectively accessed the top 25 finance and value shopping domains on their mobile and desktop devices. For example, an ad network without access to desktop data would have difficulty to make correct classifications for users that only access respective domains on their desktop device. Most notably, as the data collection of our study covered the last two days of the Jewish Passover holiday we noticed that a few users in our study did not use either of their devices as the Jewish faith prescribes abstinence from using electronics. We examine this question for the users in our dataset based on a procedure for detecting the presence of cross-device trackers in their browsing and app histories ( § 7.1) and analyzing their occurrence accounting for industry collaborations and consolidation ( § 7.2). The browser included Lightbeam [63] and User Agent Switcher [64] browser extensions that allowed us to record the trackers on each domain for both mobile and desktop websites. To identify trackers inside of apps we selected a total of 153 third party software development kits (SDKs) listed on AppBrain [6] encompassing SDKs of ad networks (e.g., Smaato), social networks (e.g., Twitter), and analytics services (e.g., comScore). We identified cross-device trackers by using Whois domain searches and tracker blocking lists, especially, the list of the Better tracker blocker [42]. Further, we only detect app tracking via SDKs and do not account for Android WebViews and app-internal browsers that could contain tracking cookies or other traditional online tracking mechanisms [18]. 13 From these sets of third party trackers we identified 124 cross-device trackers; 118 trackers that appeared on both mobile and desktop websites and 6 SDKs that are associated with a desktop tracker as well. Some of the companies either do not seem to offer an SDK for app integration (N/A) or we did not analyze it as it was not contained in our initial set of SDKs from AppBrain (N/A*). The full list, including the tracking server domains, is attached in Appendix B.high percentages illustrate that cross-device tracking is a broadly occurring phenomenon. With a total of 57 trackers (31 mobile web and 26 desktop web) food.com had the highest count overall.is intended to serve advertisements outside of Facebook's reach and shares the data it collects with Facebook as well [8]. While there is a tendency that domains that host many cross-device companies on their desktop site also host many on their mobile site, we could not find any statistically significant correlation in this regard. The DAA requires its member cross-device companies to disclose "the fact that data collected from a particular browser or device may be used with another computer or device that is linked to the browser or device on which such data was collected." [21] In order to examine the level of compliance with this transparency requirement we randomly selected 40 DAA member ad networks that advertised their cross-device capabilities on their websites and analyzed their privacy policies.We found that 23 disclosed their cross-device tracking activities while 17 omitted those. While it may be true that the majority of consumers will not take the time to understand the tracking practices described in privacy policies, 14 we think that it is still a worthwhile endeavor for cross-device companies to properly disclose their practices, particularly, for audit and enforcement purposes as well as for signaling trustworthiness to the marketplace and to build an environment of rules and norms in privacy disclosure. As the penetration of cross-device tracking on the Internet already appears relatively high it is even more important that companies active in this field are transparent about their practices.Going forward we hope that the various privacy implications of cross-device tracking technologies will be studied further. While a few major points are known-for example, that IP addresses are a crucial feature for correlating devices-many important details on how cross-device companies operate remain opaque. In this regard, the defenses against cross-device tracking are the same as the defenses against the tracking of individual devices.As cross-device tracking continues to mature and become an integral part of tracking on the Internet we believe that a comprehensive view including legal and business considerations is helpful.