This paper describes our participation in Task 5 track 2 of SemEval 2017 to predict the sentiment of financial news headlines for a specific company on a continuous scale between-1 and 1. This work ranges from domainspecific lexicons ( Loughran and McDonald, 2011) and lexicon creation ( Moore et al., 2016) to stock market prediction models (Peng and Jiang, 2016;Kazemian et al., 2016). However, much of the previous work was based on numerical financial stock market data rather than on aspect level financial textual data.In aspect based sentiment analysis, there have been many different techniques used to predict the polarity of an aspect as shown in SemEval-2016task 5 (Pontiki et al., 2014). The winning system (Brun et al., 2016) used many different linguistic features and an ensemble model, and the runner up ( Kumar et al., 2016) used uni-grams, bi-grams and sentiment lexicons as features for a Support Vector Machine (SVM). The training data published by the organisers for this track was a set of headline sentences from financial news articles where each sentence was tagged with the company name (which we treat as the aspect) and the polarity of the sentence with respect to the company. We exper-imented with the following different features and parameter settings: For comparison purposes, we tested whether or not a simple whitespace tokeniser can perform just as well as a full tokeniser, and in this case we used Unitok 5 . Company -When a company was mentioned in the input headline from the list of companies in the training data marked up as aspects, it was replaced by a company special token.2. Practically, a BLSTM is two LSTMs one going forward through the tokens the other in reverse order and in our models concatenating the resulting output vectors together at each time step.The BLSTM models take as input a headline sentence of size L tokens 6 where L is the length of the longest sentence in the training texts. As can be seen from figure 1, the drop out of 0.5 only happens between the layers and not the 6 Tokenised by Unitok 7 See the following link for detailed implementation details https://github.com/apmoore1/semeval# finance-word2vec-model connections as in the SLSTM. Our systems are not optimised for this because it would predict scores of -0.01 and true value of 0.01 as very close (within vector of other results) with low error whereas metric 2 would give this the highest error rating of -1 as they are not the same sign. We are grateful to Nikolaos Tsileponis (University of Manchester) and Mahmoud El-Haj (Lancaster University) for access to headlines in the corpus of financial news articles collected from Factiva.