Yet, there appears to be enough residual value and demand from domain speculators to give rise to a highly competitive ecosystem of drop-catch services that race to be the first to re-register potentially desirable domain names in the very instant the old registration is deleted. In the case of org, over 50 % of re-registrations on the deletion day occur during only 30 s. Furthermore, drop-catch services control over 75 % of accredited domain registrars and cause more than 80 % of domain creation attempts, but represent at most 9.5 % of successful domain creations. It also includes the much broader and more frequent category of undesirable behaviour akin to topics thoroughly studied by the security community, such as spam [32], search engine poisoning [49], ISPs hijacking NXDOMAIN DNS responses [50], domain parking [2,48], typosquatting [1,37,47], and reuse of social media profile names [35,36]. We show that this is a frequent phenomenon, causing a range of negative side effects as companies compete with each other while catering to the demand for expired domains.There are four distinct scenarios in which domains can change owners: When the current owner sells to a new owner while the domain registration is active; when the domain's sponsoring registrar sells the domain to a new owner while the domain registration is expired but before control of the domain is returned to the registry (pre-release); as an instant re-registration in the very moment the old registration is deleted, using a drop-catch service; or as a conventional domain registration at any later time using any domain name registrar. In order to gain an advantage over their competition, drop-catch services reverse-engineer details of the drop [8,28] and place their own systems in an "optimal strategical location" [4] physically close to the registry; these optimisations resemble high-frequency trading in the financial industry. Some registries actively discourage the practice (e.g., registrars are penalised for failed uk registration requests [8]), while others at least implicitly encourage or facilitate it (e.g., Verisign makes available to its registrars lists of com and net domains that are about to be deleted). Furthermore, we characterise the extent and competitiveness of drop-catch re-registrations on "day 0," that is, the day an expired domain name is deleted.We find that a surprisingly large fraction of deleted domains (10 % of com) is re-registered on the same day. In fact, there seems to be an arms race between drop-catch services that has been intensifying recently, with the Top 3 now controlling 75 % of accredited registrars. Our findings raise the question of whether these uses justify the risks associated with domain ownership changes without the explicit consent of the prior registrant; they furthermore illustrate that security mechanisms must account for domain deletions and re-registrations as a frequent phenomenon (e.g., more than 20 % of all com domains are deleted each year, and out of those, 10 % are re-registered immediately by a new owner, and many more at a later time). Details about the activity of these registrars in each zone are available in the monthly reports that registries must file with ICANN, and that are made public after a three-month delay [24]. If a domain is not renewed before its expiration date, it goes through a series of phases that permit late renewals before the domain is ultimately deleted. Expired domains can change owners during two points in time: Pre-release domains can be sold and transferred to a new owner during the auto-renew grace period; pending delete domains can be re-registered by a drop-catch service directly after deletion, or manually at any later point, all provided that the domain has not already changed owners beforehand. Some registrars such as Gandi give their customers the full 45 days for late renewals without additional fees [15], whereas other registrars begin charging increased late renewal fees or attempt to sell the domain to a new owner. According to these sources, each day Verisign makes available to its registrars a list of all domains that just entered the pending delete period and will become available for re-registration five days later, along with popularity data derived from traffic to the zone's authoritative DNS servers. Furthermore, drop-catch services are said to use multiple (rate-limited) registrar access credentials and place their servers physically close to the registry's systems [4,8,28], similar to common practices in high frequency trading in the financial industry.In contrast to pre-release domain sales, drop-catch services do not control the domain when an order is placed and cannot guarantee that they will be able to obtain it. While intended to address accidental domain registrations such as typing errors, this grace period led to wide-spread abuse, so-called domain tasting, which consists in domain speculators tentatively registering a domain with the sole purpose of testing how much traffic it would receive, and deleting the domain if the observed traffic did not warrant the registration fee. We will show in Section 4.6 that in a fashion similar to pre-release sales, at least one drop-catch service makes use of domain tasting to tentatively register domain names and delete them at no cost when it cannot find a buyer. Although unrelated to domains, Mariconti et al. [35,36] show that similar risks of trust abuse exist on social networks that allow abandoned profile names to be reused.Two works present a more systematic examination of domain re-registrations: Hao et al. [22] investigate characteristic registration patterns of spam domains and find that among re-registered domains, those later used for spamming tend to be registered faster than non-malicious domains. It is unclear whether pre-release domain sales exhibit DNS signals strong enough to be detected, since such sales might result in only minor changes to the DNS configuration when domains continue to be maintained by the same registrar or hosting company.In previous work [29], we studied the expiration process of domain names, long-term re-registration probabilities, and ambiguities in WHOIS data. While Dynadot and GoDaddy are primarily registrars and appear to re-sell their own customers' expired domains, other services partner with third-party registrars to offer their expiring domain inventory (e.g., the list of partner registrars of SnapNames includes Moniker and Tucows). These lists contain the deletion date of each domain, that is, when the domain can be reregistered, and sometimes also traffic data derived from the zone's DNS lookup traffic., Domain Graveyard [9], Domain Monster [10], DropCatch [11], Dynadot [14], NameJet [40], PoolA practical complication when using these lists is that the time zones of dates are sometimes not explicitly stated, and the listed dates sometimes refer to the last time to place an order, whereas in other cases they refer to the actual deletion date. We conducted two experiments, each designed to measure a specific aspect of domain re-registrations:• pre-release sales and drop-catch re-registrations over a four-week period in 2016, our MAIN data set, and • domain tasting in drop-catch re-registrations during one week in 2017 (TASTING). Overall, we tracked more than four million domains, as shown in Table 1 for pre-release, and in Table 2 for pending delete domains.Recall that pre-release domain sales take place during the auto-renew grace period so that registrars can delete the domains without incurring any cost if they do not sell. Since the length of this period is no more than 45 days, we can conclude that a sale or renewal has taken place if the WHOIS status at least 45 days after the initial lookup shows that (1) the domain still exists, (2) the domain is not in a redemption period or pending delete state (it is not being deleted), and (3) the domain's records still have the same creation date as in the first lookup (the domain has not been re-registered). In this paper, we focus on drop-catch domains that are re-registered on day 0, that is, on the deletion day of the old registration.Some expired domains may be available even before they are deleted, and our pre-release lists (Table 1) re-registration illustrates that security mechanisms should avoid relying exclusively on creation-time features to detect potential ownership changes. Pre-release domains are typically exclusive inventory of the selling platform, thus competition among prospective buyers would play out monetarily in auctions as opposed to a timing-based technical arms race between competing services.The four pre-release domain lists that we use in our research are slightly different in nature. To gain a better understanding of how domains are reregistered on their deletion day (and verify the third-party accounts cited in Section 2.3), we need a fine-grained view of the creation time of the re-registration. Re-registrations on the deletion day, however, do not begin until 14:30 for org and 17:00 for biz with around 90 % and 60 % of all re-registrations on that day occurring within the first 30 minutes. For instance, manual attempts to re-register a sought-after domain on its deletion day rather than paying for a drop-catch service will likely fail.Re-registrations on day 0 for biz are significantly slower than org, with about 50 % in the first five-minute interval and roughly 20 % during the next 30 minutes. Registrar IDs are used in WHOIS records to identify the sponsoring registrar of a domain, but there is no 1:1 mapping to companies since a registrar could use multiple IDs (e.g., due to acquisitions of other registrars), and it has been reported that drop-catch services use multiple credentials in order to increase their success rate during the drop [8,28]. For biz, the trend is inverse with only 34 registrar IDs used on the deletion day compared to 94 afterwards; this is another indicator that the biz drop is less competitive.The higher number of registrar IDs in use for deletionday re-registrations goes in hand with a much lower skew towards the most active IDs. These registrar IDs appear to be used for creations of drop-catch domains, but not for management of regular domains. Figure 9 shows that regular domain registrars such as GoDaddy maintain a constant or only modestly increasing number of registrar IDs, whereas drop-catch clusters grow over two orders of magnitude in an apparent arms race among drop-catch services [38,39]. In comparison, the 1252 registrar IDs controlled by DropCatch represent a daily fixed cost of at least $ 13.7 k, or approximately $ 5 per sold com domain (ignoring other costs and domains). Even before the increase, Pheenix re-registered fewer domains per registrar ID than DropCatch or SnapNames, suggesting that Pheenix may be less efficient in using their registrar IDs.Despite the widely supported recommendation that customers place backorders with all services [7,12,31], we do not know how many customers follow this advice, thus our findings should not be seen as a comparison of how successful drop-catch services are in fulfilling their customers' orders. At the same time, some wellknown drop-catch services such as Pool are not among the most highly ranked clusters, which leads us to believe that we cannot currently characterise their performance due to the limitations inherent in our methodology. We suspect that SnapNames proactively registers domain names during the drop, even without having received a specific backorder from a customer, and deletes these names if they do not find a buyer. • Drop-catch services have a significant impact on the domain name registration system: The Top 3 account for 75 % of all accredited registrars, and drop-catch is responsible for over 80 % of all domain creation attempts, yet results in no more than 9.5 % of successful com domain registrations. Our analysis has shown that there is significant demand for expired domain names (e.g., over 10 % of all com domains re-registered immediately on the day that they were deleted), and that there is a highly competitive environment of drop-catch services that race to be the first to re-register a domain in the very instant that it is deleted (e.g., over half of org re-registrations on the deletion day take place within a 30 s time frame). As a policy-based approach, registrars could be required to maintain a public log of ownership changes, similar to Certificate Transparency [30], so that security mechanisms can "reset" trust in a reliable way: Whitelists can drop domains after certain changes of ownership, web browsers can purge cached website permissions, and websites can remove links pointing to a deleted domain.What exactly drives that demand for expired domain names, whether it is intended "productive" use, abuse [22,33], monetisation through advertising [48], or speculation with the goal of reselling the domain name, is still an open question, and an interesting direction for future work.