Perhaps in response to this growing awareness that most cryptocurrencies do not have strong anonymity guarantees, a number of alternative cryptocurrencies or other privacy-enhancing techniques have been deployed with the goal of improving on these guarantees. At the time of this writing all have a market capitalization of over 1 billion USD [1], although this figure is notoriously volatile, so should be taken with a grain of salt.Even within this category of privacy-enhanced cryptocurrencies, and despite its relative youth, Zcash stands somewhat on its own. These strong guarantees have attracted at least some criminal attention to Zcash: the underground marketplace AlphaBay was on the verge of accepting it before their shutdown in July 2017 [11], and the Shadow Brokers hacking group started accepting Zcash in May 2017 (and in fact for their monthly dumps accepted exclusively Zcash in September 2017) [16]. Finally, we perform a small case study of the activities of the Shadow Brokers within Zcash in Section 8, and in Section 9 we conclude.All of our results have been disclosed, at the time of the paper's submission, to the creators of Zcash, and discussed extensively with them since. 1 1 https://github.com/manganese/zcash-empirical-analysis We consider as related all work that has focused on the anonymity of cryptocurrencies, either by building solutions to achieve stronger anonymity guarantees or by demonstrating its limits.In terms of the former, there has been a significant volume of research in providing solutions for existing cryptocurrencies that allow interested users to mix their coins in a way that achieves better anonymity than regular transactions [15,41,21,24,39,14,22,25]. Most notably, Dash [2] incorporates the techniques of CoinJoin [24] in its PrivateSpend transactions; Monero [3,35] uses ring signatures to allow users to create "mix-ins" (i.e., include the keys of other users in their own transactions as a way of providing a larger anonymity set); and Zcash [7,13] uses zero-knowledge proofs to allow users to spend coins without revealing which coins are being spent.In terms of the latter, there has also been a significant volume of research on de-anonymizing Bitcoin [37,38,12,27,40]. They both found that it was possible to link together transactions based on temporal patterns, and also based on certain patterns of usage, such as users who choose to do transactions with 0 mix-ins (in which case their ring signature provides no anonymity, which in turns affects other users who may have included their key in their own mix-ins). In a t-to-z transaction, a visible amount of ZEC moves from a visible t-address into the shielded pool, at which point it belongs to a hidden z-address (zOut = / 0). In comparison, our paper implements this heuristic but also provides a broader perspective on the entire Zcash ecosystem, as well as a more in-depth analysis of all interactions with (and within) the shielded pool. Second, it proves that the sum of (1) the values in the addresses in zIn plus (2) the values represented by the double-spending tokens is equal to the sum of (1) the values assigned to the addresses in zOut plus (2) the values in the shielded outputs plus (3) the miner's fee. In this section we describe four types of participants who interact in the Zcash network.Founders took part in the initial creation and release of Zcash, and will receive 20% of all newly generated coins (currently 2.5 ZEC out of the 12.5 ZEC block reward). These include exchanges like Bitfinex, which allow users to trade fiat currencies and other cryptocurrencies for ZEC (and vice versa), and platforms like ShapeShift [4], which allow users to trade within cryptocurrencies and other digital assets without requiring registration.Finally, users are participants who hold and transact in ZEC at a more individual level. Looking at both this figure and Figure 3, we can see that while the number of transactions interacting with the pool has grown in a relatively linear fashion, the value they carry has over time become a very small percentage of all blocks, as more mainstream (and thus transparent) usage of Zcash has increased. As we explore in Section 6.2, much of this asymmetry is due to the behavior of mining pools, which use a small number of addresses to collect the block reward, but a large number of addresses (representing all the individual miners) to pay out of the pool. In Zcash, we perform this clustering as long as there are multiple input t-addresses. If two or more t-addresses are inputs in the same transaction (whether that transaction is transparent, shielded, or mixed), then they are controlled by the same entity.In terms of false positives, we believe that these are at least as unlikely for Zcash as they are for Bitcoin, as Zcash is a direct fork of Bitcoin and the standard client has the same behavior. In fact, we are not aware of any input-mixing techniques like CoinJoin [24] for Zcash, so could argue that the risk of false positives is even lower than it is for Bitcoin. As this heuristic has already been used extensively in Bitcoin, we thus believe it to be realistic for use in Zcash.We implemented this heuristic by defining each taddress as a node in a graph, and adding an (undirected) edge in the graph between addresses that had been input to the same transaction. The result was a set of 560,319 clusters, of which 97,539 contained more than a single address.As in Bitcoin, using just this one heuristic is already quite effective but does not capture the common usage of change addresses, in which a transaction sends coins to the actual recipient but then also sends any coins left over in the input back to the sender. Finally, we also interacted with ShapeShift, which as mentioned in Section 3.2 allows users to move amongst cryptocurrencies without the need to create an account. We then validated them against the blocks advertised on some of the websites of the mining pools themselves (which we also scraped) to ensure that they were the correct tags; i.e., if the recipient of the coingen transaction in a given block was tagged as belonging to a given mining pool, then we checked to see that the block had been advertised on the website of that mining pool. On the other hand, all of the 20 donations to Wik-Oct-2016Jan-2017Apr-2017Jul-2017Oct-2017Jan-2018 Date ileak's t-address were made as t-to-t transactions. Figure 5 plots both deposits and withdrawals over time.This figure shows a near-perfect reflection of deposits and withdrawals, demonstrating that most users not only withdraw the exact number of ZEC they deposit into the pool, but do so very quickly after the initial deposit. After running the heuristic described in Section 6.1, however, we tagged all of these addresses as belonging to founders. For the first spike, however, many of the deposited amounts came directly from a founder address identified by our heuristics (Heuristic 3), so given our analysis in Section 6.1 we believe this may also be associated with the founders.While this figure already provides some information about how the pool is used (namely that most of the money put into it is withdrawn almost immediately afterwards), it does not tell us who is actually using the pool. We then used these tags to identify a founder deposit as any t-to-z transaction using one or more founder addresses as input, and a miner deposit as any t-to-z transaction using one or more miner addresses as input. Of the four 'other' addresses, one of them belonged to ShapeShift, and the others belong to untagged clusters.While it is interesting to look at t-to-z transactions on their own, the main intention of the shielded pool is to provide an anonymity set, so that when users withdraw their coins it is not clear whose coins they are. This figure shows that we are not able to identify any withdrawals as being associated with founders, and only a fairly small number as associated with miners: 49,280 transactions in total, which account for 13.3% of the total value in the pool.Nevertheless, using heuristics that we develop for identifying founders (as detailed in Section 6.1) and miners (Section 6.2), we are able to positively link most of the z-to-t activity with one of these two categories, as seen in Figures 8b and 8c. In the end, of the 177,009 zto-t transactions, we were able to tag 120,629 (or 68%) of them as being associated with miners, capturing 52.1% of the value coming out of the pool, and 2,103 of them as being associated with founders (capturing 13.5% of the value). Any z-to-t transaction carrying 250.0001 ZEC in value is done by the founders.In terms of false positives, we cannot truly know how risky this heuristic is, short of asking the founders. Nevertheless, given the known operating structure of Bitcoin mining pools and the way this closely mirrors that structure, we again believe it to be relatively safe.As a result of running this heuristic, we tagged 110,918 addresses as belonging to miners, and linked a much more significant portion of the z-to-t transactions, as seen in Figure 8c. [36] For a value v, if there exists exactly one t-to-z transaction carrying value v and one z-to-t transaction carrying value v, where the z-to-t transaction happened after the t-to-z one and within some small number of blocks, then these transactions are linked.In terms of false positives, the fact that the value is unique in the blockchain means that the only possibility of a false positive is if some of the z-to-z transactions split or aggregated coins in such a way that another deposit (or several other deposits) of a different amount were altered within the pool to yield an amount identical to the initial deposit. To identify potential TSB transactions, we thus looked at all t-to-z transactions not associated with miners or founders that deposited either 100, 200, 400, or 500 ZEC ± 5 ZEC. Again, the idea was that suspected TSB customers would not be frequent users of the pool.As with our previous heuristics, there is no way to quantify the false-positive risks associated with this set of criteria, although we see below that many of the transactions matching it did occur in the time period associated with TSB acceptance of Zcash. This is possible for a number of reasons: our criteria may have caused us to miss transactions, or maybe there were no takers. From this cluster, there was one deposit into the pool in June for 100 ZEC, one in July for 200 ZEC, and one in August for 500 ZEC, matching TSB prices exactly. To achieve this, we applied both well-known clustering heuristics that have been developed for Bitcoin and attribution heuristics we developed ourselves that take into account Zcash's shielded pool and its unique cast of characters.