Recent studies on TLS usage in the Internet ecosystem for both HTTPS [16,25] and email [24,31], however, revealed that a large fraction of communication endpoints are poorly secured and suspectible to a broad array of possible attacks (e.g., Heartbleed [3] and DROWN [11]). Besides that, Let's Encrypt still requires to be configured at least once.To date, most studies on human-centric concerns focused on non-expert end users and, to the best of our knowledge, no user study has yet been conducted to examine the usability of the TLS deployment process directly. We are confident that our results are a good baseline for the development of improved tools and policies that are better tied to the expert users' needs.The contributions of this paper thus are:• a lab study with 28 participants to explore usability challenges in the TLS configuration process• expert interviews with 7 security auditors to provide a baseline for ecological validity and to further explore potential usability improvements and recommendations for the deployment process. This includes the ability to change the quality of the used certificate, settings of used cryptographic primitives (cipher suites), enabling of TLS extensions, use of different TLS versions and the use of additional security features like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) [23] and HTTP Public Key Pinning (HPKP) [18]. Akhawe et al. [9] performed a large-scale study on the effectiveness of SSL browser warnings and found that that these warnings have high click-through rates, i.e., 70.2% of Google Chrome's SSL warnings did not prevent users from visiting the initially requested insecure site. Based on their findings, they presented a web application to support developers in making the right decisions and guiding them through the correct deployment.Fahl et al. [19] presented the first study with system administrators and found that many of their participants wished for more simplicity, e.g., simpler interfaces and automatic certificate renewal. In the given scenario, they assumed the role of an administrator of an SME who is in charge of securing the communication to an Apache web server with HTTPS in order to pass a security audit. The participants from the pre-study also explicitly reported that they perceived the cameras as disruptive and distracting, even though they were placed in a discreet way.In addition to the notes from the observation, we captured the bash and browser history and the final configuration files. For a qualitative analysis of the observation protocols we performed a series of iterative coding which is often used in usable security research to develop models and theories from qualitative data [27,34,39]. Our approach involved several steps in the analysis process and was implemented as follows: At first, two researchers traversed all data segments independently point-by-point and assigned descriptive codes. As a result of our analysis, we obtained a picture of usability challenges in the deployment process which is presented in Section 4, grouped by themes.To evaluate the (mostly) quantitative data acquired via the bash/browser history and Apache log files, we applied metrics and measures to evaluate the quality of the resulting configuration. 2 We consider this rating scheme a useful benchmark to assess the quality of a TLS configuration based on the state of the art recommendations from various RFCs [37,38] and with respect to the most recently discovered vulnerabilities and attacks in the protocol.Since web services have different requirements, e.g., backward compatibility for outdated browsers, there is no universally applicable recommendation to get the highest grade. The full set of evaluation criteria based on the metrics used in Qualy's SSL Test is listed in Appendix A.Only four participants managed to deploy an A grade TLS configuration, P24 received the best overall score. Five out of the 28 participants deployed the certificate chain correctly, which is necessary to receive a grade better than B according to our rating scheme. Eleven participants included HSTS headers to improve the security of their configuration and only two participants deployed HPKP.To determine whether the distribution of SSL Test grades from our lab study reflects those from configurations found in the wild, we consider the estimation from SSL Pulse [6] who regularly publishes data sets of grade distribution measures based on the Alexa Top 1 Million. Based on the 24 valid configurations from our study, 25% of the study configurations were graded with A, 67% with B and 8% with C. Given that the data set from SSL Pulse [6] contains websites with potentially higher security requirements or sites were administrators were presumably given more time to obtain a secure configuration. 2 R C 4 S u p p o r t V u l n e r a b l e t o P O O D L E ( S S L 3 ) F o rnumber of visited websites over all participants was 60 (median=49.5, sd=27). The documentation for SSL on Apache (second-most visited site) contains detailed information on certificate creation and retrieval but only basic information on hardening. In contrast, sslabs.com and bettercrypto.org contain comprehensive tutorials on hardening but require a detailed understanding of the underlying fundamentals. It therefore contains information that will be included in the certificate such as organization name and common name (FQDN) and enables users to send their public key along with some information that identifies the domain name in a standardized way. Four participants recognized the error after receiving an error message from the CA and then created a correct CSR including a correct common name.Choosing the appropriate cipher suites. A significance test with χ 2 (7.9982, 3) = 0.046 provides evidence to suggest that there is an association between prior experience with configuring TLS and the grade of a participant's TLS configuration from the lab study. Also, they criticized that the selection of cipher suites is a time-consuming task that requires profound background knowledge in order to make an informed decision and that bad decisions yield major security vulnerabilities. One participant also suggested a simplified configuration option including a two-or three-way variable to disable certain cipher suites (e.g., tinfoil hat vs. maximum compatibility). The requirements for participation currently work as a security consultant or auditor and to have at least 2 years of prior experience in auditing web services.The expert interviews were conducted as semi-structured interviews with 7 security experts from well-respected security consulting firms in the German-speaking region.The experts were familiar with TLS misconfigurations and frequently encountered misconceptions on how to combat the trade-off between compatibility and security. All expert interview participants reported to focus on the following configuration characteristics during audits: activated TLS/SSL version, activated cipher suites, if the certificate is recognized by commonly used web browsers, whether HSTS is configured and whether public key pinning is activated. Our interviewees, however, also mentioned that in most cases the compatibility challenge is just a mock argument which is often used as an excuse and not fully elaborated by the responsible employees. According to them, most companies have multiple servers with varying configurations and each one is maintained and updated separately.E2 also highlights that the ideal TLS configuration has changed frequently in the last two years or algo-rithms have been deprecated which implies a significant overhead for administrators to keep their configurations up to date. As an example (described in 5.2), E1 explicitly mentioned HSTS which is easy to deploy and has no impact on compatibility, but is rarely used in practice.Also, compatibility still remains a key concern as lack of compatibility often leads to overloaded help lines, as reported by E1, E6 and E7. E7 cited an administrator from an SME saying: "Our configuration supports basic encryption, so this should be more than enough... and clearly is better than no encryption." E1 also suggests that compatibility flags which administrators can use to configure cipher suites would be much more helpful than letting them deal with cipher suites directly.Regarding the deployment process in larger enterprises that maintain multiple servers, E1 proposes to create a strong sample configuration on a test server and to then deploy them on all servers. Some plugins (e.g., for Apache integration) automatically set some TLS configuration parameters (e.g., protocol version, cipher suites) to a balanced configuration in terms of security and backward compatibility. While there are dedicated tools available (e.g. ACME) it remains to show to what extent the initial effort in configuring an Apache web server actually decreases.As mentioned by our security experts, there are already servers with a focus on better security: they let their users make configurations less secure if desired instead of providing no security by default and thus forcing users to deploy security themselves. Our results also suggest that expert users are often unable to decide on the appropriate level of security, which highlights the need for cross-organizational guidelines and policies.As creating a basic TLS configuration also involves complex decisions (such as choosing the appropriate key length) it is difficult for administrators to maintain or correct errors and wrong decisions.Both the results from the lab study and the expert interviews highlight that the complex deployment process should be simplified, and that the difference between a basic correct configuration and a secure one should not be too broad. The signed consent forms were stored separately and did not contain the subsequently assigned IDs to make them unlinkable to their real names.We refrained from video-recording the participants during the study as the participants from our pre-study reported that the awareness of being filmed made them feel uncomfortable and had a negative impact on their performance even if the camera was positioned in a nonobtrusive way. Additionally, we conducted seven expert interviews with penetration testers and security auditors who frequently encounter poorly secured servers during security audits.We found that the TLS deployment process consists of multiple critical steps which, if not done correctly, lead to insecure communications and put Internet users at risk for MITM attacks. • You can connect to the web server with the command ssh web The username is pi, the password is raspberry. The grade is issued based on the following cumulative scores:• A: score >= 80• B: score >= 65• C: score >= 50• D: score >= 35• E: score >= 20• F: score < 20Errors/warnings/highlights. This refers to the length of the certificate chain, including the server's certificate and certificates of intermediate CAs, and the certificate of a root CA trusted by all parties in the chain. Two participants did not use this CA and generated self-signed certificates instead.Encrypted private key indicates whether the server's private key was encrypted by the study participant.SSL 2 -TLS 1.2 indicates which protocol versions are supported.RC4 support. Hence, activating HSTS enhances security with minimal effort without impact on compatibility.HPKP indicates whether Public Key Pinning is used, which is a useful feature to prevent attacks and making the public aware of them. -ls -s TARGET LINK NAME -symlink TARGET LINK NAME -ln -s TARGET LINK NAME -ln TARGET LINK NAME• TLS uses ...-symmetric cryptography -asymmetric cryptography -pem/der certificates -X.509• TLS is ...-computationally very expensive -complex to configure correctly -originally invented by Facebook -easy to buy using cloud services• Which of the following commands is used to save a file in vim (Vi Improved)? -The private key used for TLS -The certificate used for TLS -The certificate authority private key for TLS -The certificate signing request used for TLS• Where are HTML files served by the Apache Webserver located after default installation? As weak symmetric ciphers can be easily broken by attackers, it is essential to the overall configuration that strong ciphers are used. As described in [2], the key exchange phase serves two functions: (1) authentication to verify the identity of the other party and (2) safe generation and exchange of secret keys to be used for the remaining session. Popular algorithms are the DiffieHellman key exchange (DHE) and its elliptic curve version (ECDHE). -ls -s TARGET LINK NAME -symlink TARGET LINK NAME -ln -s TARGET LINK NAME -ln TARGET LINK NAME• TLS uses ...-symmetric cryptography -asymmetric cryptography -pem/der certificates -X.509• TLS is ...-computationally very expensive -complex to configure correctly -originally invented by Facebook -easy to buy using cloud services• Which of the following commands is used to save a file in vim (Vi Improved)?