Commercial vendors also regularly release analyst-focused reports which go beyond indicators and paint a picture of the tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) of specific actors.While organizations can generate limited forms of TI from their internal systems, they increasingly turn to procuring TI from external sources. We complement this user study with a high-level quantitative analysis of services of two market leaders, comparing these to several open TI feeds.With this approach, we aim to answer the following questions: (i) What do paid TI services consist of? We make the following contributions:We present the first empirical analysis of paid TI from market leaders, comparing the data of two leading vendors to each other and to OTI. Threat intelligence services claim to address this by providing the necessary information to identify risks, aid in their quantification, guide the selection of controls, provide indicators to detect adversaries, and show possible courses of action.To a limited extent, TI can be extracted from an organization's own security controls. It does not only contain indicators and information observed from an ongoing threat somewhere else (e.g., an IP address that has brute-forced or phished a different organization), but insights based on active research, proprietary vantage points, and potentially insider information by a specialized provider. Later in this paper, we explore the extent to which this advantage allows PTI vendors to uncover offensive infrastructure.In general, assessing quality of TI data through metrics is very hard, as there is no ground truth on global maliciousness [25]. It did not conduct any analysis of the overlap in indicators among the two vendors before we started our research.The offerings of the vendors consisted of 5-10 subsets around specific topic areas, e.g., 'financial industry', 'cyberespionage' or 'cybercrime'. A simple interview protocol was used in which participants were asked about: (i) Their definition of threat intelligence; (ii) What commercial sources their organization pays for and, for each of the sources, discuss costs, source properties, use-cases, and valuable organizational outcomes; (iii) Their experiences with use of non-commercial sources; (iv) Their reasons for having discontinued a source, if ever. The codebook is reflected in Tables 3 and 4, and is included in Appendix B. Interview number (chronologically) 0 10 20 New analytic codes Figure 1: We reached analytical saturation after 9 interviews, as no more new codes were uncovered. Paid threat intel providers (PTI) 100% Open sources (OTI) 79% Shared sources (STI) 64% Government 50% With product or service 50% Collective procurement 36% Own research 36% We now address the first sub-question: What do paid TI services consist of? Less overlap means that each vendor is observing unique indicators that are missed by the other providers, suggesting limitations in the coverage of threats.We analysed the overlap for the same 22 actors that both Figure 4: Government and financials represent the main industries as reported on by two leading paid TI providers from 2013-2018. Advisories and alerts describe current events, such as a software vulnerability being targeted or a threat group expanding their focus to another geographic region.As can be seen in Figure 4, paid TI reports primarily consider threats to government, military, and financial services. Providers that offer it may be targeting a different audience with their services, possibly customers that are in need of a managed TI capability, rather than external data sources as input to their existing TI team. Because of this perceived accuracy, PTI indicators are used with more confidence in detection and other use cases.Overlap among paid and open sources is negligible, even though the OTI lists are vastly more voluminous than the lists of PTI indicators, as can be seen in Figure 6. The same appears to hold vis-à-vis STI, in the words of a team lead TI at an oil and gas company: "We also have our own networks with companies in [our sector] and I must honestly say, we quite often get the information earlier there than from our [paid] intelligence providers. This use case, like situational awareness, also underlines the value of reports compared to raw indicators.Enrichment of own threat intelligence (36%) where PTI is processed with the aim to improve the organization's own services -e.g., by managed SOC providers and government CERTs, as well as by TI teams to internal stakeholders. Combining TI and other data can generate insights for an analyst on where and how to search for attacker activity in systems and networks.Informing security engineering (21%) includes using TI to organize vulnerability management as part of maintaining the organizations own systems. Prior work has assumed that users would like to evaluate TI based on quality criteria such as volume, overlap, timeliness, accuracy, and coverage [21,33], as discussed in Section 2. Again, these value perceptions reflect a way of thinking that aims to reduce impact of TI on analysts, in this case by valuing TI that reduces the inputs into the workflow to what is considered the most relevant.Finally, there is a cluster of values around actionability. Six out of fourteen respondents did define some criteria or intelligence requirements in order to evaluate TI sources, often in the form of information gaps in the organizationi.e., what questions the TI team needed to answer.One analyst described using metrics within the network detection use case: "You can [demonstrate the effectiveness] by generating a metric on IOC feeds. The interviews we conducted display an apparent contradiction in the practice of TI use: professionals discuss at length the properties that they believe make TI valuable to them, yet hardly attempt to measure or validate these beliefs.This contradiction questions if threat intelligence metrics, as proposed by [21] and others, can actually capture the right value properties. Another limitation of these metrics is that although quantification make sense for network detection -events can be measured -it make less sense for the other uses of PTI services that customers described. The secrecy around their methods to observe threat actors also benefits vendors economically: as long as their methods remain opaque, myths will live on about how TI providers may offer some special degree of TI coverage, possibly through an exclusive skillset, 'hacking back', or by means of access to restricted information. When both seller and the buyer lack reliable information on the quality of a product, this creates -in Grigg's analysis -a market for 'silver bullets', where herding behavior and arbitrary best practices triumph over rational purchasing decisions.Finally, we note that through their forensic work, TI vendors have profound influence on how the general public and the political leadership understands security incidents. While TI as contextualized, high-level information has the potential to remediate these issues [6], a 2019 SANS survey nonetheless found (low-level) indicators of compromise to be valued higher by respondents than information about (high-level) tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) [7]. A common sentiment in the TI industry is that 'real' high-quality threat intelligence may only be obtained from these exclusive closed-source commercial providers, and [31] finds PTI sources are used twice as often as OTI in industry.Second, we contextualize these quantitative approaches to measuring quality by conducting a user study of PTI customers and identify their perceptions of value. The reports concern primarily government, military, and financial institutions -important customers of TI vendors -but surprisingly also pay a lot of attention to campaigns targeting civil society, possibly due to their political significance.Besides indicators and reports, paid TI services also consist of requests for information from analysts, portals with historic information, data mining platforms, and custom alerts. The small number of overlapping indicators show up in the feed of the other vendor with a delay of, on average, a month. Recent work [21,15] confirmed the results of earlier studies [39,25,19]: the feeds are highly heterogeneous, overlap among any two feeds is often very small and never more than 10%, and the feeds are dominated by 'singletons'; entries that do not appear in any other feeds. Three indicator feeds, for the high degree to which they were reused by other open sources [15] -which we expected might lead to reuse in paid TI-and one communitybased aggregator that enables its users to extract indicators from blogs and reports, which vice versa we expected might lead to reuse of PTI indicators in OTI. Depending on the organization, even a relatively low number of false positives may lead to notification fatigue and thereby reduce the feed value.Timeliness of information in a feed pertains to the time gap between an attack vector occurring and its associated indicators being included in the feed [28]. This includes all instances in which TI is used to reduce attacker dwell time in an automated fashion, including correlating TI to logs, ingesting it in a SIEM or IDS, or using it in host-based detection controls.Situational awareness was mentioned in two out of three interviews (64%) as a use case. We compare one month of data from these collected OTI feeds (October 2018) against five months months of indicators from the two PTI vendors (July to December 2018), in order to compensate for the higher churn in the OTI feeds and, again, to find an upper bound in overlap. There is a delay of around one month before indicators from one set are found in another.The main use case for TI is network detection, followed by situational awareness -which we understand to mean: informing your threat profile -and prioritization of resources in the SOC. This way, resources -especially attention of analysts -can be allocated toward most relevant threats.Informing business decisions (36%) concerns uses of TI to improve organizational decision-making. Possibly this prominence could be explained by the political significance of the targeting of civil society, or by the relatively large number of such campaigns being observed.In our interviews, respondents describe that reports of PTI providers are helpful on "all decks of the organisation", from SOC analyst to CISO. We compare these to open TI indicators feeds (which are much larger in volume), and find less than 1% overlap between them, suggesting that PTI providers successfully differentiate themselves and are capturing a different part of the threat landscape. A head of SOC at an ISP described wanting to be able to verify the origin of intelligence they receive, or what one might call the vendor's transparency: "For us, a provider's ability to answer questions about their intel is an indication of the confidence we can place in them. Such stories and symbols give rise to an understanding of detection and attribution capabilities of PTI vendors that currently cannot be substantiated nor vetted.As a consequence of the low transparency, the market for paid TI shows signs of asymmetric information, in which the vendors know what they are selling, but customers don't know what they are buying. This also explains why, in order to achieve better coverage of their threats, network defenders combine on average 7.7 TI sources [31]. These services were not providing original high-end TI sources, but helped curate and aggregate otherwise free or low-end indicator feeds, and were priced in the range of USD 1-10k per year, as kindly confirmed to us by one of the paper's co-authors. Timeliness may be essential for the value of a feed used in active defense mechanisms, e.g., intrusion detection middle boxes, but for forensics purposes this is less critical.Ingestibility relates to the structure and consistency of structure in a feed [28], i.e., how well it can be automatically processed.Relevance of a TI feed [28], also referred to as fitness [29], describes how well the indicators and contents of a feed fit an organization's use case. Selectiveness indicates a preference for a low volume, which is seen as an indication of accuracy.These perception of value reflect an intriguing implicit trade-off that users are making; smaller, more curated TI sources are valued higher, as these require fewer organizational resources and may prevent information overload for analysts [4]. We find almost no instances where threat intelligence is distributed by other PTI within that vendors do not use the TI from their competitors, or at least not successfully, to find the same indicators in their own telemetry.We conducted the same analysis for the indicators of the two vendors versus the four OTI sources. Data visualisation (14%) is related property that aids in putting the TI to use by making it accessible.In sum, we find that TI is evaluated on a much broader set of criteria than prior work assumed. This approach means that our findings can help form an understanding about how the market for PTI functions, but not about how the reported views are distributed across the global population of security professionals who use PTI.Between August and December of 2019, we conducted 14 interviews with professionals who work with PTI. The vendor would then search their own data and report back with information.Our respondents described that requests for information are budgeted as part of the contract at around 10 inquiries per year. The categorization of such trade tools as 'intelligence products' is up for debate, but our respondents did indeed name them as part of their paid threat intelligence.Custom alerts notify customers of specific risks to their organizations. A Team Lead TI at a bank shared: "The global costs of a CTI team is around C1-1.5 million per year, including 6-7 staff members and tooling costs. In the remainder of the paper, we will produce some of these metrics for PTI, replicating the approach of [21] ( Sections 5 & 6), while also using interviews with users to see how organizations assess the value of PTI with or without such metrics (Section 6). As the field of PTI is marked by ambiguous terms and complex practices, we opted for a data collection method that can help us unpack the ambiguity, namely semi-structured interviews in a grounded-theory approach -similar to [41]. Confidence is evidently related to accuracy (43%) of TI, but respondents also mentioned selectiveness (29%). Situational To illustrate: we found 16 instances where Vendor 1 was earlier than Vendor 2, to an average of 45 days. These are subscription-based platforms on which customers can run queries, somet