By combining qualitative data on users' password creation and management strategies, collected from 476 participants of an online survey, with quantitative data (incl. password metrics and entry methods) collected in situ with a browser plugin from 170 users, we were able to gain a more complete picture of the factors that influence our participants' password strength and reuse. Figure 1: Users' strategies for password creation and storage plus the stages of our study to investigate managers' influence.Our contributions: We argue that to specifically study the impact of password managers, important aspects were missing in prior work, and this paper's most tangible contribution is an extension of prior methodologies to be able to study password managers' impact in the wild. We first recruited 476 participants on Amazon MTurk to conduct a survey sampling to better understand users' strategies for creating and storing passwords, their attitudes towards passwords, and past experiences with password leaks or password managers. We were further able to recruit 170 of our participants, 49 of which reported using password managers, for a follow-up study in which our participants allowed us to monitor their passwords through a Google Chrome browser plugin that collected password metrics as well as answers to in situ questionnaires upon password entry. In particular, the relation between different entry methods and the password strength depends on the users' entire process of password handling. Given the permanence of passwords, users are commonly referred to technical help in form of password management software [28,59,53,56] to create strong, unique passwords.In this paper, we aim to better understand how password managers help users in this task and try to measure the impact password managers actually have on the current status quo. We do this through a comprehensive study that includes both self-reported user strategies and factors for password creation and storage as well as in situ collected password metrics and questionnaire answers. Similarly, many websites use password strength meters to provide real-time feedback on new password's strength and nudge users into creating stronger passwords [23,61]. To cope with the task of remembering a large number of passwords, users resort to reusing passwords across different accounts [16,37], creating a situation in which one password leak might affect multiple accounts at once. Both studies monitored websites for password entries and recorded the password characteristics, such as length and composition, a participant-specific password hash, the web domain (or domain category), as well as meta-information including installed browser plugins or installed software (e.g., anti-virus software). In case of the newer study [51], also hashes of sub-strings of the password were collected as well as a strength estimate using a neural network based password meter [45] and whether the password was auto-filled or not. For our work, we derived a more fine-grained detection of the password entry method, which allows us to distinguish human, pluginbased, auto-fill, or copy&pasted input to password fields and thus better detection of managed passwords. Web access to the server was secured with an SSL certificate issued by the university's computing center and all further access was restricted to the department's intranet and only made available to maintainers and collaborating researchers. In total, 505 MTurk workers participated in our survey between August 1 https://erb.cs.uni-saarland.de/ 2 Other instruments, which meet the latest requirements of scale constructions and which are often used in recent research, do not reflect the actual privacy/security attitude construct, but refer more strongly to security behavior (e.g., SeBIS [22]) or are strongly tailored to the corporate context (e.g., HAIS-Q [50]).2017 and October 2017. To collect in situ data about passwords, including strength, reuse, entry method, and domain, we created a Chrome browser plugin that monitors the input to password fields of loaded websites and then sends all collected metrics back to our server once the user logs in to the website. From a statistical point of view, a metrically scaled strength measurement instead of the ordinal zxcvbn score would have helped in finding possible effects on password strength easier (see Section 4), however, it does not affect the presence of possible effects per se.Website category: The category of the website domain according to the Alexa Web Information Service [2]. 4 Entry method: The method through which the password was entered, such as human, Chrome auto-fill, copy&paste, 3rd party password manager plugin, or external password manager program. If our plugin detects any kind of typing inside the password field ((A)=Y) and the typing speed is too fast to come from a human typist ((B)=N), we conclude that an external password manager program (such as KeePass) mimics a human typist by "replaying" the keyboard inputs of the password. If Chrome auto-fill has not filled the password field ((D)=N), our plugin checks the list of installed plugins for eight well-known password manager plugins (see Appendix D) and reports the ones installed in the participant's browser, or an "unknown" value in case none of those eight was found.We make the assumption that the user does not enter the password with a mixture of the different entry methods (e.g., pasting a word and complementing it with typing). For every newly detected domain to which a password was submitted, our plugin asked the participant to answer a short three question questionnaire about the participants' estimate of the website's value, the participants' strength estimate of the just entered password, and whether the login was successful (see Figure 3). Due to the lack of in-person interviews or consultation between the researchers and the participants, we tried to address those concerns through a high level of transparency, support, and collecting only the minimal amount of data in a privacy-protecting fashion, which also follows the guidelines for academic requesters [20]. In this context, we provided a complete list of all data that our plugin collects, for which purpose, and why this data collection does not enable us to steal the participants' passwords. Also, our participants covered an age range from 18 to more than 70 years, where our sample skews to younger participants (75.2% of our study participants are younger than 40) as can be commonly observed in behavioral research, including password studies and usable security. Although in our pilot study various password manager plugins, e.g., KeePass and 1Password, had been correctly detected, in our actual study only LastPass was used by our participants. Looking at the password strength for all unique passwords (see Figure 5), one can see that 65% or 44 of all passwords entered with LastPass are stronger than the overall average of 2.20, while the other entry methods show a more balanced distribution across the zxcvbn scores (except for score 0). In summary, this indicates that LastPass shows an improved password strength (mean of 2.80 with SD=1.07) and password uniqueness in comparison to the other entry methods. Based on their answers, we discovered a dichotomous grouping:Group 1: Password managers/generators ("PWM"): First, we identified participants that reported using a password generator, either as integrated part of a password manager program (e.g., "I use lastpass.com, which automatically creates and saves very strong passwords.") Only a very small subgroup of seven participants reported using analog tools to create passwords, such as dice or books ("I have a book on my desk I pick a random page number and I use the first letter of the first ten words and put the page number at the end and a period after.") For instance, various participants emphasized ease of remembering as a criteria for new passwords (e.g., "something easy to remember, replace some letters with numbers.") We find that they have statistically significant different distribution for gender (U = 2,366, p = .016), computer science background (U = 2,181, p < .001), and attitude towards passwords (U = 3,440, p = .024). Regarding password reuse (see Figure 7), the most frequent category is exactly-and-partially reused (n = 189 or 36.21% for Group PWM ; n = 555 or 44.58% for Group Human ). Our analyses showed that our participants significantly differ from each other in their average password strength (Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance, χ 2 = 779.19,d f = 169, p < .001) as well as in their average probability of password reuse (χ 2 = 692.70,d f = 169, p < .001). In three steps we included a) entry methods, self-reported value, and strength; b) the number of individually submitted passwords per participant, the creation and storage strategy of the user; in a final step c) the interaction between creation strategy and detected entry method. This is a well established procedure for model building, e.g., in social sciences and psychological research [32,25,9,15], and allows the creation of models that have the best trade-off of complexity, stability, and fitness. In contrast to human entry the odds for reuse were 2.85 time lower if the password was entered with LastPass (odds ratio 0.35, predicted probability of reuse with Lastpass = 48.35%) and even 14.29 times lower if entered via copy&paste (odds ratio 0.07, predicted probability of reuse with copy&paste = 19.81%). In general, our participants showed very similar password strength and reuse characteristics as in prior studies [51,66] and our analysis could also reaffirm prior results, such as rampant password reuse.Our study adds novel insights to the existing literature by considering the exact password entry methods and by painting a more complete picture by considering the users' password creation strategies. Two-factor authentication (2FA), in particular, might be a valuable feature for future, targeted investigations, but for our study, we excluded 2FA since most (major) websites still lack support for 2FA and even for services offering 2FA support the userbase has only little adapted to it [46]. In the future, the influence of services like Have I Been Pwned 6 , which are increasingly integrated into password creation forms and managers, onto the users' understanding of uniqueness and password reuse could be studied.Another interesting question that comes from our study is why users of password managers (Group PWM ) still reuse passwords and employ weak passwords. Another explanation could be that those passwords existed prior to starting using a password manager and were never replaced (e.g., LastPass introduced features 7 for automatically updating "legacy passwords" in 2014), or maybe those are passwords that are also required on devices not managed by the user (e.g., computer pool devices at the university). Thus, we think it would interesting to investigate this question more focused.Further, in light of the high relevance of copy&paste for strong and unique passwords, our results can also underline the "Cobra effect" [35,36,47] of disabling paste functionality for password fields on websites to encourage the use of 2FA or password managers. More troublesome is that our results suggest that the most widely used manager, Chrome's auto-filling feature, has only a positive effect on password strength when used in conjunction with an additional generator and even shows an aggravating effect on password reuse. Further, we recruited only experienced US workers on Amazon MTurk, which might not be representative for any population or other cultures (external validity), however, our demographics and password statistics show alignment with prior studies. Furthermore, we collected our data in the wild, which yields a high ecological validity and avoids common problems of password lab studies [41], but on the downside does not give control over all variables (internal validity). Studying this impact requires in the first place an approach that is able to detect potential effects of managers. To better understand zxcvbn's scoring, we used zxcvbn to score 200 million unique passwords collected from hashes.org, where we measured the zxcvbn score and the corresponding guesses in log10. a2: Most businesses handle the personal information they collect about consumers in a proper and confidential way.