Second, we conduct three experimental design surveys to understand how users perceive UI variations in identity indicators for login pages, looking at EV UI in Chrome and Safari and URL formatting designs in Chrome. In these surveys, we find no evidence that the EV UI in either Chrome or Safari impact how comfortable users feel when logging into a webpage.Finally, having found little evidence that EV indicators influence user behavior, we consider whether URLs can be more effective identity indicators (Section 5). We found no significant differences among any of the variations, leading us to believe that a more radical redesign is necessary for URLs to effectively communicate website identity to users.Our results, along with the body of existing work, suggest that modern browser identity indicators are not effective. For example, "google.com" is the registrable domain in the URL "https://accounts.google.com/", and "google.co.uk" in "https://accounts.google.co.uk/".The registrable domain is typically the identity indicator of interest because when an organization controls a registrable domain, the same organization can typically control all the subdomains and paths within that domain. 1 Section 2 of the CA/Browser Forum guidelines for EV certificates [3] specifically states that one primary purpose of EV certificates is to enable a browser to inform the user about the specific legal identity of the business with which they are interacting when using a website. These weaknesses have led to a vigorous debate in the security community about whether browsers should continue to display EV certificate UI [22,23,32]. Our work seeks to inform this debate with up-to-date, large-scale, in situ data about how users react to EV indicators.Malicious EV certificates. For example, the personal finance management site mint.com has a legal entity name of "Intuit Inc." To understand whether browser EV UI has an effect on user behavior in the wild, we analyze data from a large-scale field experiment. Stable channel is considered the most representative for measurement and experimentation purposes.Chrome metrics reports are pseudonymous, containing client information such as the operating system and country, but no personal information (e.g., age or gender). We analyze the number of times a suggestion was selected normalized by the number of times a suggestion was shown.As with form submissions, these metrics provide insight into whether users in the experimental group are less comfortable providing credit card details to the page. Chrome's Page Info bubble is the dialog that appears when a user clicks on the main connection security indicator in the address bar ( Figure 3 To see if there are statistically significant effects on any of our metrics of user behavior between our control group and our experimental group, we perform a Welch's t-test for unequal sample variances (as our sample sizes and variances are not guaranteed to be equal between our treatment and control groups) for each metric of interest.For each metric, we report the difference between the experimental group and the control group, the 95% confidence interval for the difference, and the p-value of the t-test. Though we cannot feasibly measure all such user reactions, we feel that our study still provides value by (a) measuring a wide variety of user behaviors that one could reasonably expect to be influenced by a security or identity indicator, and (b) studying user behaviors in a naturalistic scenario that have previously been studied only in labs or surveys.Limited insight into per-site effects. While our experiment does not cover such attack scenarios, we feel that our experiment's attack scenario is of particular interest: the purpose of EV indicators are to provide human-meaningful identity information on the premise that other signals, such as the URL, are not sufficient tools for identifying websites. In this case, we expected the experiment to, at most, make users act more cautiously on legitimate sites, since we were only modifying positive security UI (compared to, for example, prior work experimenting with full page connection security warnings [14]). That is, hiding the EV UI did not make users substantially less likely to perform actions in the Page Info bubble.Applying a Bonferroni correction for multiple testing with m = 19 (for each of the tests in Tables 1 and 2), the corrected significance level would instead be α = 0.05 /m = 0.002. With the correction, only one origin had a significant difference in user behavior: Origin 15 had 4.26 (95% CI: 2.20 to 6.32, d = 0.24) fewer navigations on average per user in the experimental condition. We note that our navigation metric used here is not normalized due to limitations of the URL-keyed metrics dataset, so these results may be affected by natural variations in browsing volume between users.Control (σ ) Experiment (σ ) ∆ 95% CI p-value Cohen's d EVControl (σ ) Experiment (σ ) ∆ 95% CI p-value Cohen's d Cookies dialog opened 0.0019% (0.0026%) 0.0010% (0.0017%) -0.001 (-0 In our EV field study, we failed to find evidence that the absence of the EV indicator influences most user behaviors. In the first, users saw the login webpage with the EV display used in macOS 10.13, and in the second condition, users saw the EV display from macOS 10.14 ( Figure 5). Two researchers coded the qualitative responses on users' comfort level, with one team member (the codemaster) open coding the initial coding rounds, and the other iteratively providing feedback to the codemaster. We conducted a Kruskal-Wallis test, and in both the U.S. (χ 2 = 1.1783, df = 4, p = 0.8817) and U.K. (χ 2 = 2.4994, df = 4, p = 0.6447), we found no significant differences among users' comfort levels in each condition. , while U.K. participants most commonly pointed to an HTTPS indicator (e.g., "the https along with the padlock in the address bar") but not EV-specific UI.Participants referred to cues in the content area such as:• familiarity with the webpage • the page's simplicity or ease of use (e.g., "I feel very comfortable because it is easy to understand...") • the page's general design (e.g., "A comfortable amount of white space without the page feeling empty") • the page looking normal or expected (e.g., "The sign in system here has followed a standard sign in page and gives all necessary help") When referring to cues in the browser itself, participants most commonly referred to the HTTPS indicator, specifically identifying the padlock icon (e.g., "Mainly because of the padlock on the top search bar makes me think it's secure enough to use safely"). Few noticed oddities in the page's country code (no more than 8% in any U.S. condition and 5% in the U.K). We conducted a Kruskal-Wallis test, and in both the U.S. (χ 2 = 0.0808, df = 1, p = 0.7762) and U.K. U.S. Table 5: Sample results of the open-ended question "Can you tell us why you feel that way?" Table 7 shows the full results.Once again, as much as 6% in the U.S. and 9% in the U.K. said the website they saw is "safe" or "secure" without mentioning whether the browser or content area made them feel that way. We conducted a survey experiment to learn whether more pronounced URL formatting changes in the browser address bar would draw attention to the URL and help users understand its security properties, but we found that these URL formatting changes were not effective. This survey suffers the same limitations as in Section 3.1.5: namely, an artificial scenario and limited generalizability beyond the U.S. Additionally, in this survey, participants may have responded to the novelty of the URL format, and not just the URL content, making it difficult for us to isolate the impact of the URL format alone. Table 8 shows the coded results of our question about why users felt comfortable or uncomfortable logging in.When asked why users reported feeling "somewhat" or "very comfortable", the majority of responses described looking at cues in the content area, citing that the website looked familiar (e.g., "Because it's familiar. In this paper, we used large-scale field data and surveys to corroborate past results on browser identity indicators and to contribute new findings.Our EV field experiment (Section 3) found that removing the EV UI has no effect on most user behavior metrics. 7 n 132 127 130 124 128 132 137 Comfortable reasons Looks familiar 36% 33% 35% 35% 38% 23% 32% I trust Google 20% 17% 12% 15% 16% 16% 15% Page looks simple / easy to use 8% 3% 8% 4% 5% 4% Table 8: Coding results of the open-ended question "Can you tell us why you feel that way?" Prior work has seen some success in redesigning EV indicators to make them more noticeable [33] or more understandable [8], but not better able to help users detect attacks. We therefore recommend that the security community focus on triggering active warnings when a website's identity is suspicious (for example, when a domain is suspiciously similar to a popular domain), rather than relying on users to notice and act on passive identity indicators. As our work shows, both types of user research provide value: telemetry from field experiments can measure aggregate or per-site effects over large numbers of users in naturalistic settings, whereas user studies can provide insight into users' thought processes. In the 2000s, a number of studies analyzed how users react to EV indicators, finding that they were not effective in helping users detect phishing. Our work updates and expands these studies by providing large-scale in situ browser telemetry data, as well as survey data from over 1,000 participants, using modern browser UIs.Designing EV for reassurance and understanding. In a lab study with a think-aloud protocol, Jakobsson et al. [25] concluded that users look at URLs in the process of determining whether a website is authentic, but they can be easily fooled by tricky URLs.Xiong et al.[40] expanded Lin et al.'s work to include a control condition that did not highlight the domain in the UI, as well as a larger, more representative participant group and eye-tracking data. Felt et al. [16] surveyed thousands of users to redesign connection secu-rity indicators that met modern design constraints and better communicated the intended semantics.Multiple studies have investigated user understanding of connection security and HTTPS, finding that users, especially those without technical backgrounds, do not have well articulated mental models for how the Internet works [26], and often conflate HTTPS and the lock icon with site security rather than connection security [38]. Particularly relevant for our work here, they found general distrust in HTTPS as a protocol and that security indicators are rarely part of users' mental models.Our work contributes to this body of evidence that browser identity indicators, like connection security indicators, do not help users make security decisions. Malkin et al. [29] and Bravo-Lillo et al. [9] conducted Mechanical Turk studies to evaluate UI changes for HTTPS warnings and plugin installation prompts, respectively.