The unique properties and expressive capabilities afforded by computer and mobile device-mediated communication has led to quite distinct forms of expression in comparison with classic email etiquette, let alone traditional written correspondence.Meanwhile, for any meaningful analysis of social interactions or expression of opinions, it is critical to extract and understand the sentiment and the affect of the source. Davidov et al. (2010) adopted a fairly similar approach by handpicking smileys and hashtags as tweet labels and relying on a supervised method for sentiment analysis of tweets.Emoji Semantics. We begin by assembling a dataset for this purpose (Section 4.1), and subsequently induce a series of lexicons that reveal potential connections (Section 4.2), including between words and emojis, as well as between emojis and emotions. To this end, we relied on a set of most frequently used 620 emojis from No- vak et al. (2015) and from Emoji Tracker 1 , a website that monitors the use of emojis on Twitter in realtime.Using our set of frequent emojis as search terms, we retrieved tweets that specifically contain one or more of these target emojis. To clean up the data, we removed usernames (marked with @-symbol), tweets consisting only of hashtags and emojis but no text, tweets that only contain a short time stamp such as "6AM" or simply a URL (with or without the "http://" prefix), as well as all duplicate tweets. These resources can be useful for the community, but also allow us to conduct analyses of the data.In our tweet collection, there are roughly 36K tweets per emoji, and these have a uniform distribution across the collection time period.Inspecting the results, we observe that the overall top-ranked pair of co-occurring emojis in our dataset is U+1F61D and U+1F61C . According to our findings, the emoji U+1F637 ("face with medical mask") co-occurs with the hashtags #sick, #flu, #yuck, #cold, #in-somnia, and #dying, which all are clearly semantically relevant for this emoji. Previous work has proposed interpretable word vectors consisting of one or more sentiment polarity scores for a word (Dong and de Melo, 2018; Dong and de . An obvious method would be to adopt just simple frequency counts as the values in these vectors, i.e., for a given word, the entries in its word vector would simply reflect the number of times that word co-occurred with a given emoji.However, we can improve over this by relying on the word2vec Skip-Gram with Negative Sampling algorithm ( Mikolov et al., 2013) as an intermediate representation, as illustrated in Fig. 1. In the following, we evaluate EmoTag for machine learning-driven emotion analysis of tweets and show how it can be used to reveal the sentiment and emotion of individual emojis.The first study aims at evaluating the usefulness of our interpretable EmoTag word vectors in a downstream task, exploiting them in a machine learning-driven system that seeks to identify the emotion intensity of tweets.Subsequently, we use our data to compute sentiment polarity scores for emojis, comparing these against existing human annotations of emoji sentiment.Finally, we develop the first resource providing emotion scores for emojis. In particular, we consider the EmoInt Shared Task from WASSA (Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment & Social Media Analysis) 2017 (Mohammad and Bravo-Marquez, 2017a), which involves determining the intensity or degree of emotion felt by a speaker when a tweet and a target emotion are given. The obtained matrix then serves as input to a convolutional layer with a window size of 3, followed by a max-pooling layer (size 2) and an LSTM (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber, 1997) to predict a numerical output for each tweet. For obtaining sentiment scores, we rely on the NRC Emotion Lexicon EmoLex (Moham- mad and Turney, 2013), a list of English words and their associations with eight basic emotions (anger, fear, anticipation, trust, surprise, sadness, joy, and disgust) and two sentiments (negative and positive). For some emojis, our model obtains a high sentiment score such as 0.991 for "Kissing Cat Face Correlations Top 100 positive emojis 0.71 Emojis with face 0.45 Monkey face emojis 0.53 Emojis with kissing 0.14 Table 5: Pearson Correlations for Sentiment Score with Closed Eyes" U+1F63D, whereas the score by Novak et al. (2015) is 0.571. The latter merely provides Boolean labels for word-emotion pairs, and thus it is non-trivial to derive affect intensity scores from it, particularly via emojis.To reproduce word emotion intensities based on our emoji emotion scores, we proceed as follows. Note that this is the complete set of emoji results provided in their paper, apart from one additional emoji for the emotion surprise, which our method currently does not support, due to its omission in EmoLex. Among these, the use of emojis stands out as meriting very special consideration, not least due to their ability to compensate for some of the shortcomings of written language as a medium in conveying emotion and affect.While research in social science and social media analytics has extensively studied the use of emojis in everyday communication, previous work has not fully explored the connection between emojis and emotion. It also shows how an interpretable word embedding can be formed with the help of emojis, which shows promise as an additional ingredient in emotion detection-related tasks.Another key contribution of this work is the creation of a large resource, consisting of several different sub-lexicons that describe connections among emoji, words, and other items, as well as emotion scores for emojis, which are released to the public 2 .