After 120 days, implemented participant-designed threat mitigation strategies provided tangible security benefits for NYC, including blocking 541 unique intrusion attempts, preventing the hijacking of five privileged user accounts, and addressing three public-facing server vulnerabilities. Threat modeling -a structured process for assessing digital risks and developing mitigation strategies -originated more than 30 years ago and is commonly recommended in industry and academia as a useful tool for mitigating risk in software, systems, and enterprises [57]. 1 NYC3 is responsible for defending the most populous city in the United States from cyber attacks, including a digital infrastructure that supports 60 million visitors and 300,000 government employees each year.Similar to many other enterprise organizations, prior to our study, NYC3 did not use threat modeling but protected its assets primarily via vendor technologies meeting city-specific and industry guidelines. In the 120 days following our study, NYC3 implemented participant-designed defensive strategies that prevented five privileged account hijackings, mitigated 541 unique intrusion attempts, and remedied three previously unknown web-server vulnera- Step-by-step process for threat modeling with CoG, using participant P17's responses as an example. While our findings are drawn from a single enterprise environment, NYC3 shares many similarities to many U.S. enterprises today, such as the use of widelymandated compliance standards [29,44,45], use of pervasive vendor technologies, and the mission to protect a spectrum of organizations ranging from the financial sector to law enforcement [13]. In this study, we introduced NYC3 employees to the Center of Gravity (CoG) framework, which originated in the 19th century as a military strategy [64]. We selected CoG because it incorporates many key characteristics from across more pervasive frameworks: CoG provides practitioners with a top-down approach to identifying internal points of vulnerability, similar to STRIDE [38,39], and it assists with assessing vulnerabilities from an adversarial perspective, similar to attack trees, security cards, persona non grata, and cyber kill chain [9,14,28,54]. Figure 1 illustrates these steps using an example provided by one participant.To begin using CoG, analysts must start by codifying the long-term organizational objective, or "end state," of defensive measures. Some CVs are binary, such as the complete loss of a CR, but others may cause a reduced functionality beyond some threshold, preventing the CoG from accomplishing the objective.Building a thorough list of critical vulnerabilities allows the practitioner to understand how their objectives can be threatened. From the list of TCs, they enumerate all of the threat requirements (TR) needed to support each capability.The final step in the CoG analysis process is building an actionable defense plan (ADP) that can neutralize identified threat capabilities and requirements, mitigate critical vulnerabilities, and protect the identified CoG. Each component of an ADP, designed to dampen or eliminate one or more potential risks, is referred to as a mitigation strategy. Both effectiveness, the ability to successfully achieve an outcome, and efficiency, the ability to reduce effort to achieve an outcome, comprise efficacy.Because we introduced threat modeling in NYC3's operational environment, we were not able to conduct a comparative experiment; instead, we designed a primarily observational study to obtain as much insight as possible -both qualitative and quantitative -into the effects of introducing threat modeling within an enterprise environment. We asked participants about their specific work role, responsibilities, and demographics; their understanding of organizational mission statements; which assets they use to accomplish their daily duties; their sentiment towards NYC3's current security posture; and their perceived self-efficacy for performing digital security tasks.We used a combination of open-ended, close-ended, and Likert-scale questions in our 29-question online survey (App. Thus, our class was designed to reinforce each concept with a hands-on exercise using scenarios relevant to the audience and their domain knowledge.During the class, the instructor introduced participants to tabular and graph-based methods performing CoG analysis [59]; we include examples of both in App. The tabular tool allows users to record their responses to each subtask of the CoG framework; each section supports data in follow-on sections. A.Prior to providing the intervention, the instructor observed NYC3 employees at work for four days to better understand their operating environment. To maintain consistency across class sessions, the instructor incorporated answers to these questions at relevant points in future sessions, and emailed the answers to participants who had attended previous sessions. D), and allowed participants to bring in any notes from the previous educational intervention training. Without notifying the participants, we logged task completion times for each step, in an effort to measure the efficiency of the framework without putting undue pressure on participants.The interviewer used the constructive interaction method for communicating with the participants, asking them to openly communicate throughout each subtask in Section 2.2 [40]. For consistency, the same interviewer completed all performance evaluation sessions.At the completion of each session, we retained a copy of the completed worksheets, photographed the whiteboards, and returned the original worksheets to the participant to help guide their responses for the second online survey. B), conducted immediately after the performance evaluation session, we collected responses measuring the framework's actual and perceived efficacy. Further, we asked participants to evaluate their ability to complete digital security tasks solely using the CoG framework and and to answer comprehension questions measuring their current understanding of the framework.Follow-up survey. We believe, however, that our results still provide insight as to how threat modeling in general can benefit a large enterprise.As we will describe in Section 4.3.2 below, we used two NYC3 leaders to jointly evaluate the defense plans produced by our participants. We report participant demographics, baseline metrics, immediate post-training observations, 30-day observations, and observations after 120 days.We organize our findings within the established framework of perceived efficacy, actual efficacy, and actual adoption [32,41,50]. Through these three measurements, we provide security practitioners with the first structured evaluation of threat modeling within a large-scale enterprise environment. Participants reported using the following guidelines and programs for assessing NYC's digital security posture: city-specific policies and executive orders such as the NYC remote access policy [49] (n=6), NIST Cybersecurity Framework [44] (n=4), and NYC3's onetime accreditation process for adding new technologies to their network (n=2). In contrast to the baseline survey, performance evaluation session observations and post-training surveys indicate that threat modeling provided participants with a better understanding of their security environment, that participants felt more confident in their ability to protect NYC, and that participants could successfully apply threat modeling relatively quickly with accurate results. P16, a non-technical administrative support staffer, used threat modeling to understand the implications of wide-open security permissions on a wiki and networked share drive.Threat modeling provided two participants with selfderived examples of why crisis continuity plans exist for large organizations. An example of this includes establishing a formal memorandum of understanding (MoU) with law enforcement agencies in NYC to facilitate the exchange of threat indicators. P21 used threat modeling to show "what we're lacking or what we need to concentrate [on]," such as standard cyber hygiene.Eight participants expressed that threat modeling added much-needed structure and perspective to difficult problems. He believes threat modeling makes a positive difference with available resources, while helping to prioritize requests for future capabilities and support.Five participants reported that threat modeling allowed them to plan defensive strategies more effectively. While applying the framework, P10 declared that "insider threats overcome the hard shell, soft core" within most enterprise networks and that threat modeling helped him identify new ways to neutralize the impact of insiders bypassing perimeter defenses and exploiting trusted internal systems.Four participants stated that purposefully considering their asset inventory during threat modeling allowed them to fully understand their responsibilities. Both of these leaders received in-person training on CoG and are uniquely qualified to assess the accuracy of the provided responses given their intimate knowledge of the NYC3 environment and cybersecurity expertise. We provided the evaluators with an anonymized set of the study results and asked them to jointly qualify the accuracy of the identified centers of gravity, critical vulnerabilities, threat capabilities/requirements, and ideal defense plans using a 6-point Likert scale ranging from zero to five with zero being "extremely unlikely (UL)" and five being "extremely likely (EL)" (See App. For example, 16 of 18 technicians indicated that a digital security tool was their CoG (e.g., firewalls, servers) whereas four of six participants in support roles identified a "soft" CoG (e.g., relationships, funding, and policies). After identifying his CoG as an Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) system 3 and applying the framework, his ADP consisted of three mitigation strategies: "Make sure there is a fail-over setup and test it. Despite the aforementioned decrease in perceived efficacy over the 30-day period, the number of participants who found the framework useful to their jobs increased from 23 to 24, as NYC3's adoption of ADPs within their environment caused one participant to believe in the framework's usefulness. In the 30-day follow-up, all participants accurately answered our critical vulnerability question, 23 correctly identified a CoG visually, 17 correctly identified a critical requirement for a capability, and 13 correctly identified a critical capability for a notional CoG. One week after completing their performance evaluation sessions, six participants transformed a wall within their primary meeting room into an "urgent priorities" board ( Figure 5) for implementing defensive actions that address critical vulnerabilities identified during this study.Figure 5: NYC3 developed an "urgent priorities" task tracker to address problems identified in this study.Their board facilitates two-week action periods and improves how the organization communicates the impact of their progress to senior leaders. Several participants identified user account permissions -a fundamental security control in any networked environment -as insufficiently well managed. Because of his recommendation, NYC3 partnered with a bug bounty service provider to conduct a 24-hour proof-of-concept assessment against one of its web services.Sensor coverage. Six participants stated that a simple typo in a configuration script, like the one that caused the 2017 Amazon S3 outage [2], could have significant impacts across multiple systems or networks. After 120 days, participant-designed ADPs blocked account hijackings of five privileged user accounts, blocked 541 unique intrusion attempts, and discovered (and remedied) three vulnerabilities in public-facing web servers, all of which support that introducing threat modeling made NYC3 more secure.We note that many of the ADPs that NYC3 employees developed and implemented (Section 4.5) contain straightforward recommendations, such as applying multi-factor authentication. In their 30-day follow-up surveys, P18 and P24 stated that NYC3 would need organizational programs in place to aid widescale adoption of threat modeling, such as pairing junior personnel with mentors and facilitating peer-to-peer partnerships. We hypothesize that pairing experienced employees with junior personnel could permit mentors to orient their mentee to the environment and provide context to ongoing defensive initiatives, all while reinforcing their own understanding of threat modeling.Further, the NYC3 leadership panel results indicated that 9 of 25 actionable defense plans were insufficiently detailed for immediate implementation. For convenience, we only refer to the organization as NYC3.2 Due to operational security risks, we do not name specific vendor solutions.3 Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) describes a suite of tools focused on detecting and investigating suspicious activities, intrusions, and other problems on endpoint systems. This scenario was the first and only time participants completed CoG analysis analysis in a group setting.We consider a small e-commerce business with the primary objective of maximizing profit and secondary objectives of customer satisfaction and website availability. Critical capabilities for our business back-end database include (1) conducting atomic, consistent, isolated, and durable transactions, (2) permitting responsive queries from the front-end webserver, and (3) providing security safeguards for inventories and customer data. Of the previously identified P17 assets, the EDR is the CoG analysis because of its inherent ability to thoroughly protect systems across the enterprise, using input from network traffic inspectors and feeding log aggregators. CRs for P17 to block intrusion attempts include possessing updated indicators of compromise (IOCs) (i.e., threat signatures) and having the EDR agent installed on workstations. With respect to our running example, representative TCs against corrupted updates include the ability to tamper with or manin-the-middle IOC updates. Please use a scale from 0 to 5, with 0 being "extremely unlikely" and 5 being "extremely likely" 2. Each participant received a printed version of the worksheet shown in Figure 6 to help guide them through CoG analysis. A critical vulnerability against the superlaser is accessible via a thermal exhaust port with an exterior opening.