CONFIRM (CONtrol-Flow Integrity Relevance Metrics) is a new evaluation methodology and microbenchmarking suite for assessing compatibility, applicability, and relevance of control-flow integrity (CFI) protections for preserving the intended semantics of software while protecting it from abuse. For example, introspective programs that read their own code bytes at runtime (e.g., many VMs, JIT compilers, hot-patchers, and dynamic linkers) can break after their code bytes have been modified or relocated by CFI.Compatibility issues of this sort have dangerous security ramifications if they prevent protection of software needed in mission-critical contexts, or if the protections must be weak-ened in order to achieve compatibility. • Evaluation of 12 CFI implementations using CONFIRM reveals that existing CFI implementations are compatible with only about half of code features and coding idioms needed for broad compatibility, and that microbenchmarking using CONFIRM reveals performance trade-offs not exhibited by SPEC benchmarks. DEP and ASLR motivated adversaries to craft even more elaborate attacks, including ROP and Jump-Oriented Programming (JOP) [11], which locate, chain, and execute short instruction sequences (gadgets) of benign code to implement malicious payloads.CFI emerged as a more comprehensive and principled defense against this malicious code-reuse. The guards are designed to be uncircumventable by confronting attackers with a chicken-and-egg problem: To circumvent a guard, an attack must first hijack a control transfer; but since all control transfers are guarded, hijacking a control transfer requires first circumventing a guard.Both CFI phases can be source-aware (implemented as a source-to-source transformation, or introduced during compilation), or source-free (implemented as a binary-to-binary transformation). Production software often includes complex control-flow structures, such as those introduced by object-oriented programming (OOP) idioms, from which it is difficult (even undecidable) to derive a CFG that precisely captures the policy desired by human developers and users. However, while the security and performance trade-offs of various CFI solutions have remained actively tracked and studied by defenders throughout the arms race, attackers are increasingly taking advantage of CFI compatibility limitations to exploit unprotected software, thereby avoiding CFI defenses entirely. While there is a hope that small-scale prototyping will result in principles and approaches that eventually scale to more architectures and larger software products, follow-on works that attempt to bridge this gap routinely face significant unforeseen roadblocks. We believe many of these obstacles remain unforeseen because of the difficulty of isolating and studying many of the problematic software features lurking within large, commodity products, which are not well represented in open-source codes commonly available for study by researchers during prototyping.The goal of this research is therefore to describe and analyze a significant collection of code features that are routinely found in large software products, but that pose challenges to effective CFI enforcement; and to make available a suite of CFI test programs that exhibit each of these features on a small scale amenable to prototype development. Since many failures manifest as subtle forms of register or memory corruption that only cause the program to crash or malfunction long after the failed operation completes, this debugging constitutes many hundreds of person-hours amassed over several years of development experience involving CFI-protected software. While this is one common example of how indirect branches arise, in practice they are a result of many different programming idioms, discussed below.Function Pointers. For example, using gcc with the -O2 option generates register-indirect calls for function pointers, and MSVC does so by default.Callbacks. These DLLs are not loaded into memory until one of their exported functions is invoked.In Linux, a module calls functions exported by a shared library by calling a stub in its procedure linkage table (PLT). Modern C/C++ compilers can optimize tail-calls by replacing them with jumps. While indirect branches tend to be the primary code feature of interest to CFI attacks and defenses, there are many other code features that can also pose control-flow security problems, or that can become inadvertently corrupted by CFI code transformation algorithms, and that therefore pose compatibility limitations. Since nearly all modern architectures combine concurrency, flat memory spaces, and returns, this leaves almost all CFI solutions either inapplicable, unsafe, or unacceptably inefficient for a large percentage of modern production software.Position-Independent Code. For example, PIC often achieves its position independence by dynamically computing its own virtual memory address (e.g., by performing a call to itself and reading the pushed return address from the stack), and then performing pointer arithmetic to locate other code or data at fixed offsets relative to itself. This procedure assumes that the relative positions of PIC code and data are invariant even if the base address of the PIC block changes.However, CFI transforms typically violate this assumption by introducing guard code that changes the sizes of code blocks, and therefore their relative positions. Unlike SEH, VEH is not stack-based; applications register a global handler chain for VEH exceptions with the OS, and these handlers are invoked by the OS by interrupting the application's current execution, no matter where the exception occurs within a frame.There are at least two features of VEH that are potentially exploitable by attackers. This secret is not protected against memory disclosure attacks; it is potentially derivable from disclosure of any encoded pointer with value known to the attacker (since XOR is invertible), and it is stored in the process environment block (PEB), which is readable by the process and therefore by an attacker armed with an information disclosure exploit. Adapting the solution to save and restore EDX to support the new calling convention can lead to tens of additional instructions per call, including additional memory accesses, and therefore much higher overhead.The C standard calling convention (cdecl) is caller-pop, pushes arguments right-to-left onto the stack, and returns primitive values in an architecture-specific register (EAX on Intel). Caller-popped calling conventions are important for implementing variadic functions, since callees can remain unaware of argument list lengths.Callee-popped conventions include stdcall, which is the standard convention of the Win32 API, and fastcall, which passes the first two arguments via registers rather than the stack to improve execution speed. To allow callees to optionally spill these parameters, the caller additionally reserves a red zone (Linux) or 32-byte shadow space (Windows) for callee temporary storage.Highly optimized programs also occasionally adopt nonstandard, undocumented calling conventions, or even blur function boundaries entirely (e.g., by performing various forms of function in-lining). Runtime code generation (RCG) is therefore conservatively disallowed by most CFI solutions, with the expectation that RCG is only common in a few, specialized application domains, which can receive specialized protections.Unfortunately, our analysis of commodity software products indicates that RCG is becoming more prevalent than is commonly recognized. This allows it to modify the behaviors of late-loaded components without having to recompile them all each time the main application is updated.To hook a function f within an imported system DLL (e.g., ntdll.dll), it first allocates a fresh memory page f and sets it both writable and executable. To facilitate easier evaluation of the compatibility considerations outlined in Section 3 along with their impact on security and performance, we developed the CONFIRM suite of CFI tests. Source-aware solutions can be evaluated by applying CFI code transforms to the source codes, whereas source-free solutions can be applied to native code after compilation with a compatible compiler (e.g., gcc, LLVM, or MSVC). For the object-oriented interfaces required to launch a CODE-COOP attack, we choose Microsoft COM API functions in Windows, and gtkmm API calls that are part of the C++ interface for GTK+ in Linux. This test generates JIT code by first allocating writable memory pages, writing JIT code into those pages, making the pages executable, and then running the JIT code. To examine CONFIRM's effect on real CFI defenses, we used it to reevaluate 12 major CFI implementations for Linux and Windows that are either publicly available or were obtainable in a self-contained, operational form from their authors at the time of writing. Effective compatibility therefore indicates secure and transparent support for the code features exhibited by the test.In Table 3, Columns 2-3 begin with an evaluation of LLVM CFI and LLVM ShadowCallStack on Windows. Like MCFG, Reins fails against CODE-COOP attacks. Both Reins and OFI nevertheless proved vulnerable against attacks that abuse position-independent code and memory management API functions.The GNU C-compiler does not yet have built-in CFI support, but includes virtual table verification (VTV). As shown in column 7 of Table 3, VTV does not protect other types of control-flow transfers, including function pointers, callbacks, dynamic linking for both load-time and run-time, tail calls, switch-case jumps, return addresses, error handling control-flows, or JIT code. However, it is permissively compatible with all the applicable tests, and can compile any feature functionality we considered.As reported in Columns 8-9, LLVM on Linux shows similar evaluation results as LLVM on Windows. In terms of effective compatibility, MCFI and πCFI both securely support dynamic linking, switch jumps, return addresses, and unmatched call/return pairs, but are susceptible to CODE-COOP attacks. Overall, πCFI scores more compatible and more secure relative to MCFI, but with slightly higher performance overhead.PathArmor offers improved power and precision over the other tested solutions in the form of contextual CFI policy support. Efficient context-checking is implemented as an OS kernel module that consults the last branch record (LBR) CPU registers (which are only readable at ring 0) to check the last 16 branches before the impending protected branch. By repeatedly exploiting a data corruption vulnerability in a loop, our test program can reliably break all tested CFI defenses within seconds using this approach.Since concurrency, flat memory spaces, returns, and writable stacks are all ubiquitous in almost all mainstream architectures, such attacks should be considered a significant open problem. Of the tested solutions, only PathArmor manages to strike an acceptable balance between these two extremes, but only at the cost of high overheads.A third outstanding open challenge concerns RCG in the form of JIT-compiled code, dynamic code unpacking, and runtime API hooking. If, for example, CFI introduces high overheads for code features not well represented in SPEC benchmarks (e.g., because they are not performance bottlenecks for CFI-free software and were therefore not prioritized by SPEC), but that become real-world bottlenecks once their overheads are inflated by CFI controls, then SPEC benchmarks might not be good predictors of realworld CFI overheads. Examples of such performance evaluations include those of PittSFIeld [43], NaCl [81], CPI [40], REINS [78], bin-CFI [87], control flow locking [10], MIP [48], CCFIR [84], ROPecker [16], T-VIP [29], GCC-VTV [69] [14], and τCFI [47]. The remaining 34% of CFI technologies that are not evaluated on SPEC benchmarks primarily concern specialized application scenarios, including JIT compiler hardening [50], hypervisor security [41,76], iOS mobile code security [22,55], embedded systems security [2][3][4], and operating system kernel security [20,31,38]. Overall, 88% of surveyed works report evaluations on 3 or fewer large, independent applications, with TypeArmor [72] having the most comprehensive evaluation we studied, consisting of three FTP servers, two web servers, an SSH server, an email server, two SQL servers, a JavaScript runtime, and a general-purpose distributed memory caching system.To demonstrate security, prior CFI mechanisms are typically tested against proof-of-concept attacks or CVE exploits. Examples of security evaluations against COOP attacks include those reported for µCFI [35], τCFI [47], CFIXX [14], OFI [75], PITTYPAT [24], VTrust [82], PathArmor [71], and πCFI [51]. The authors thank Tyler Bletsch, Dimitar Bounov, Mihai Budiu, Yueqiang Cheng, Xuhua Ding, Hong Hu, Jay Ligatti, Ben Niu, Mathias Payer, Michalis Polychronakis, R. Sekar, Zhi Wang, and Qingchuan Zhao for their provision of CFI solution implementations and installation assistance for evaluations.