Based on industry estimates, a single skimmer can capture 30-100 credit cards per day [5] and each card, based on estimates from law enforcement officials, nets the criminal an estimated $500 [53], resulting in a daily loss of $15,000-50,000 per day of operation for each skimmer. Gas pumps have relatively weak security: their payment circuitry can be accessed with universal keys or crowbars, and reading payment data is as easy as tapping into a ribbon cable (Section 2.1). Gas pump skimming has become so pervasive that the Arizona Department of Agriculture, Weights and Measures Division (AZWMSD) now checks for skimmers while doing routine inspections. While Bluetooth is a vital tool for criminals to exfiltrate data from gas pumps, it also could be an opportunity to make it easier to detect skimmers.In this paper, we evaluate the effectiveness of detecting skimmers with Bluetooth scanning from a smartphone. In these scans, Bluetana detected a total of 64 skimmers installed at gas stations in Arizona, California, Nevada, and Maryland, and it was the sole source of information that led law enforcement to find 33 skimmers.The primary result of this study is the first comprehensive look at how skimmers can appear in Bluetooth scans. We also find that signal strength is a reliable way to determine if a Bluetooth device is located near a gas pump, and thus could be a skimmer.Our study reveals several problems with consumer Bluetooth-based skimmer detection applications [46,2,51]: (1) there are many legitimate products that appear at gas stations that use the same Bluetooth modules as known skimmers; therefore, MAC address-prefix based detection may lead to false positives, (2) there are many Bluetooth modules used in skimmers that do not comply with IEEE MAC assignment requirements. For instance, none of the skimmers we found using Bluetooth scans have a name that is a long string of letters and numbers.Performing this in-depth study brought to light several important operational lessons learned about the importance of detecting skimmers with Bluetooth. We even found skimmers installed hundreds of miles away that had surprisingly close MAC addresses.The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 provides background on internal gas pump skimming: their construction, monetary incentive, and prevalence in the wild. Skimmers are illicit devices that capture credit card magnetic stripe data when a card is used at a point-of-sale (PoS) terminal or automatic teller machine (ATM). External skimmers use a magnetic head concealed in a false faceplate to read the magnetic stripe of a card as it is inserted into the real card reader. However, this paper is concerned with a newer class of skimmers, called internal skimmers, that are installed entirely inside a PoS terminal or ATM, leaving no visual evidence of its presence [47]. These skimmers are built using commodity hardware with a total unit cost of $20 or less.Fuel pumps with a built-in PoS terminal have become a very popular target for such internal skimmers: they are unattended, easy to access, and have poor physical security, which make it easy to install a skimmer without being noticed. The skimmer also uses this connection for power: the power and ground pins of the Teensy (on far left of board, not visible in Figure 2) are connected to power and ground on the card reader cable. By using a development board, a skimmer requires only rudimentary electronic assembly: soldering wires to the development board.However, skimmers have also been found using what appeared to be fully custom-designed boards. On the hardware side, a Bluetoothto-serial module provides a TTL-level receive and transmit pin, allowing it to interface to any micro-controller UART. The 2.4GHz Bluetooth antenna is included on the module's circuit board (exposed area to the left of the metal shield for the module shown in Figure 2), so the antenna is also hidden.Bluetooth-to-serial modules generally require no configuration, however, most can be reconfigured using Hayes-style modem AT commands. Stealing and monetizing stolen credit and debit card data, called carding by its practitioners, is a well-studied form of financial fraud, however, reliable estimates of losses resulting from a single skimmer are difficult to find. Based on our survey of sites selling stolen card data, black market prices for stolen cards fall in the $10-220 range, depending on whether the card is a debit or credit card, and whether it comes with a PIN (for debit) or billing ZIP code (for credit). This may be due to a variety of reasons, such as the following: incorrectly reading card data, hitting daily withdrawal limits, and activating fraud alerts. To understand the prevalence of skimmers in the wild, we obtained data on recovered skimmers from three regions in the United States: San Diego and Imperial counties of California, with a combined population of 3.5 million; the state of Arizona, with a population of 7 million inhabitants; and the state of Florida, with a population of 21 million inhabitants. Driven by the observation that skimmers are hard to findfew pumps in San Diego, Arizona, and Florida have been found to have skimmers installed in them (Table 2)-we created a tool, called Bluetana, to evaluate the effectiveness of Bluetooth-based skimmer detection. It collects the Bluetooth scans and geo-location data, and uploads this data to a secure database over a cellular link. In several cases, Bluetana highlighting a device in red was the only reason officials performed a manual skimmer inspections: out of the 64 skimmers we found, 33 were recovered because an official started an inspection only after noticing a device was highlighted in red in Bluetana. Bluetooth scanning is a surprisingly effective way of detecting skimmers: in Arizona, Bluetana has detected skimmers at 1.58% of the 491 stations it scanned, and routine inspections by state inspectors had a similar detection rate of 1.5% from 2016 to 2018. The first three bytes (prefix) of the MAC address typically correspond to the manufacturer of the device.Although MAC address prefixes are often assigned by IEEE (e.g., all of the RN Bluetooth modules have the same manufacturer MAC prefix) the HC modules have a wide variety of MAC prefixes. Next, we evaluate if the skimmers detected by Bluetana were clearly distinguishable from the other devices observed at gas stations. Given that there are only a small number of Bluetooth devices seen per station, it may seem likely that these devices are all skimmers. However, only a small fraction (4.25%) of these devices matched the characteristics of the skimmers we observed during the course of our study.We performed this study on Classic Bluetooth devices only. However, we observed a large number of BLE devices at gas stations; therefore, switching skimmers to BLE modules may make them more difficult to detect with scanning tools like Bluetana (Section 5.1). This is an important observation because a popular detection application, SkimPlus [51], only flags skimmers based on a hitlist of MAC prefixes [46]; it may incorrectly flag legitimate devices as skimmers.The devices observed with MAC prefixes that were in the YY:YY:MM:DD format (likely HC modules) were mostly skimmers. The remaining 159 devices are Uncategorized and their MAC prefixes are either: Roving Networks, YY:YY:MM:DD, Unknown, or seen on less than five devices. Specifically, there was a 7-month time period in which Bluetana was used by many of the Arizona inspectors (October 7, 2018 -May 7, 2019), and we compare the reports filed during these inspections with the scan data that Bluetana collected. The remaining missing skimmers may have been built with alternate exfiltration methods, such as SMS [46], or even require physical recovery [47]. There were 757 total inspections where inspectors used Bluetana 8 , Bluetana may have incorrectly detect skimmers in 5.9% of inspections.Incorrectly identifying skimmers is likely due to the fact that RN and HC modules are used in a variety of legitimate products, some of which are seen in and around gas stations. We found RN and HC modules in radar-based speed limit signs, weather sensors [38] automotive diagnostic scanners, scales [37] and fleet tracking systems [52]. Instead, the skimmer installer would need to reflash the CSR firmware using a special programming cable. The skimmer installer could also change the device name but not the MAC address, say, to one of the known benign devices using the same module, something that us possible to do by issuing AT commands from the micro-controller to the module. Indeed, the very low price of stolen credit card numbers, compared to their potential cash out value (Table 1) suggests that the bottleneck in the carding value chain is not getting card information but cashing out cards. The evidence provided by Bluetana forced them to continue the inspection, instead of abandoning it and leaving the devices in the field. This information can be used to associate skimmer Bluetooth modules to the same board designer or crew.We group the skimmers found by Bluetana with the same first 5 bytes of MAC address. They found that several popular Bluetooth-based skimmer detection applications use a only MAC prefix or device name matching. The results of our study show how the Bluetooth profile of skimmers in these applications can be improved to detect more skimmers, and to flag fewer legitimate devices as skimmers. We also find that Bluetooth-based scanning is an effective way to augment manual gas pump inspections. This work supports our findings that skimmers are often discovered within the first few seconds of passing by a gas station.Inventory Attacks. Similar to Bluetana, future work in this area should emphasize designing easy-to-deploy systems for detecting skimmers, and evaluating their effectiveness with large-scale studies.Push-back from banks and card issuers has led to widescale adoption of EMV in retail PoS systems. We also thank the Kevin Allen, and the field investigators at the Arizona Department of Agriculture, Weights and Measures Services Division, for their invaluable help in understanding and analyzing the skimming problem in Arizona. Citizens Bank suffered a loss of $91,580 with 74 compromised customer accounts . . . " USA v. Cristea et al [16] ". . . Altogether, on February 21,2016, FBI surveillance observed Cristea, Co-conspirator #1, and Co-conspirator #2 go to approximately 12 different locations, where, according to CardTronic's records, they withdrew at least $7,000 from at least 18 First National Bank accounts . . . "USA v. Khasanov et al [7] ". . . USPS agents thereafter conducted record checks on the purchased USPS money orders and discovered that 10 of the 57 money orders had been purchased with 5 payment numbers issued by Citibank . . . "