Researchers have observed the increasing commoditiza-tion of cybercrime, that is, the offering of capabilities, services, and resources as commodities by specialized suppliers in the underground economy. We use longitudinal data from eight online anonymous marketplaces over six years, from the original Silk Road to AlphaBay, and track the evolution of commoditiza-tion on these markets. Indeed, these platforms can reach a large audience and provide risk management services for criminals, e.g., by protecting their anonymity, and featuring reputation systems to root out fraudulent sales and shield sellers from risky interactions with buyers.While data from online anonymous marketplaces provides a unique opportunity to track the evolution of commoditization, we are not arguing that these marketplaces provide a complete picture. • We find commoditized business-to-business offerings for most value chain components, though many of them are niche products with only modest transaction volumes. • We also uncover a surprising amount of revenue in retail cybercrime -that is, business-to-consumer sales rather than business-to-business, similar to the patterns observed for drug sales. Transaction cost economics (TCE) is a mature economic theory that seeks to explain under what conditions economic activity is organized in markets (buy) and when it is vertically integrated (make) -i.e., the entrepreneur develops the component himself or brings someone with that capability into the enterprise. Transactions where investments are exposed to unrelieved contractual hazards (s = 0) will not be traded pub-licly (i.e., anonymous online marketplaces such as Silk Road or AlphaBay are a poor fit), but on smaller, "inviteonly" markets where trust relations are forged among specialized insiders, anonymity is not absolute, and escrow services are less prominent [36]. The efficiency gains also work in the other direction: those who offer goods or services that can be commoditized would use these markets to sell them and benefit from the wide reach and high frequency of transactions, without being exposed to risky direct interaction and coordination with buyers.In terms of TCE, online anonymous marketplaces are unassisted markets -i.e., they are the place to go for commoditized cybercrime. Second, extortion schemes, for instance ransomware or fake anti-virus [17] have a value chain that consists of four distinctive resources: a) development of malware b) distribution, by either exploits or (spear)phishing emails, c) take-over and "customer service" and d) cashout [30,42]. Third, click fraud is supported by four similar, general resources: a) development of a website, malware or a JavaScript, b) distribution through botnets, c) takeover by either malware or JavaScript and d) cash-out [32,42]. Fourth, the criminal business model in social engineering scams, such as tech support scams [35], or oneclick fraud [16] leans on: a) (optional) development of malware or a malicious app, b) distribution by phishing e-mail or website, or through social engineering, c) take-over and setting-up "customer service," and d) cashout [35,42]. Fifth, cybercriminal fraud schemes, e.g. those enabled by financial malware, build on four general, main resources: a) development and b) distribution of malware or a malicious app, c) take-over, for instance by using web-injects or a RAT, 1 and d) cash-out [42,44]. Sixth, cryptocurrency mining relies on near-similar resources as click fraud: a) the development of malware or JavaScript, b) distribution of malware by botnets or the injection of a JavaScript in a compromised websites, c) the take-over, i.e. mining, and d) cash-out [27,42]. Seventh, the criminal business model that profits from selling stolen credit card details makes use of: a) development of a phishing website, malware or a malicious apps, b) distribution, c) take-over, i.e. the logging of information, and d) reselling and cashing-out [23,42]. Our measurement methodology consists of 1) collecting and parsing data on listings, prices and buyer feedback from eight prominent online anonymous markets, 2) implementing and applying a classifier to the listings to map them to cybercrime components from our conceptual model of value chains (Figure 2) as well as to additional categories of B2C cybercrime, and 3) using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA, [10]) to identify the best-selling clusters of listings and compare their offerings to the capabilities, resources and services needed for each component of the conceptual model. 2 AlphaBay is important since, according to the FBI [4], by the time of its closure, it had featured over 100,000 listings for stolen and fraudulent documents, counterfeits, and malware in particular. For these, we found no listings in our random sample.The classification phase itself consists of three steps: (i) data cleaning, (ii) tokenizing, (iii) training and evaluation of the ground-truth samples which are the concatenation of the title and description of the item listings. We mitigate the negative impact of this imbalance on our classification results by re-sampling our ground truth listings by the SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique) method, thereby increasing the cardinality of each category to match the size of the largest labels; this is a standard technique towards improving algorithmic fairness. Our main goal is therefore to prevent cybercrime component listings, like malware, from ending up in "other" and vice versa.We evaluate the performance of our classifier in Fig- ure 3. The heuristic for dealing with holding prices [40] used in pre-processing does not correct situations where all instances of a listing among our snapshots were either only seen with a holding price, or in some cases do not exceed a set maximum of $10,000. To find additional misclassified drug listings, we leveraged the distinctive features of drug listings, namely the unique terminology used to list the quantity of drugs offered, e.g., "grams," "mg," "ug," "lbs," "ml," "pills," etc. This is a consequence of the generally low-value exploit listed in anonymous marketplaces, e.g., run-of-the-mill Office exploit macros. The first buyer who uses these credentials will in all likelihood set off red flags at the credit card company for irregular spending, making a subsequent purchase of the same credentials worthless. Curiously, the median lifespan of cash-out listings is above average, which could be due to vendors updating the specific product listed, or persistently selling unusable credit card details, or to a slower-than-expected detection of suspicious transactions by credit card companies.Looking into median lifespan of listings reveals little differences as all but three categories have a median listing lifespan of close to one month. The steep increase thereafter is distributed over four new markets (Agora, Evolution, Hydra and Silk Road 2), but shows that the aggregate pattern is clearly one of rapid growth. Overall, we see that the average amount of feedback per listing stabilizes halfway through 2012 and from that moment onwards seems to follow a slow rise.Essential to the understanding of the ecosystem is identifying which categories can be attributed to most of the growth in sales and revenue. In the second half of 2014, listings in e-mail distribution such as spam tutorials, spam runs or large databases of e-mail addresses generate very high revenue numbers. Similarly, we see a spike in botnet-related sales driven by a mysterious listing titled "source," receiving 10 -rather negative -feedbacks in the summer of 2014 As with the revenue per listing, the number of unique vendors per category is generally increasing over time, however the increase in vendors is steeper than the increase in listings. Soska and Christin showed that in the contemporary ecosystem (i.e., after the Silk Road take-down), it is common for each vendor to maintain more than one alias on different marketplaces which may be partially responsible for this observation. To deal with the large differences in size of the categories, we first take the logarithm of the number of listings in each category and then calculate the percentage of each category in this log-scaled total count of listings. Hydra and Pandora are relatively small markets, with a shorter life-span and the absence of listings in some categories is probably due their comparatively modest size and short existence. Indeed, these B2C products are meant to be used or consummed by the buyer, and are not parts for some large value chain with another profit center at the end of it.The large portion of retail cybercrime is in line with what has been observed on the drugs side of these markets; B2C transactions for consumers of drugs, along with more modest amounts of B2B transactions with larger quantities for lower-level dealers [8]. However we observed that a small fraction of very expensive items tends to obfuscate this analysis, thus we instead opted for identifying these "main theme" clusters based on the number of unique feedbacks. In the category of phone listings, one prominent cluster comprises listings on bypassing security features on phones. The third cluster consists of compromised RDP-servers/hosts listings.Our analysis suggests that nearly all prolific clusters supply a component that matches B2B demand, but that this supply is incomplete, in that the observed supply fulfills only a niche demand in each category. We however note that selling a guide is not the same as outsourcing a cybercrime component.In summary, the demand for cybercrime components is frequently met on online anonymous markets in our dataset, but the supply is highly restricted to specific niches and the accompanied revenue is generally modest. In the category of voucher-related listings, we see offers for: a) Tesco vouchers, b) lottery tickets and c) "free" pizzas, of which most are indeed discount vouchers or gift cards for various pizza chains, but a few are in fact credit card offerings, where "slices" refer to groups of accounts.The nature of products and services in all of the bestselling clusters tells us that we are observing transactions of retail cybercrime. Our density of scrapes is lower in mid-2016, meaning that we might have missed a number of transactions occurring then.All in all, we might be missing a non-negligible number of transactions occurring on AlphaBay; data for the other marketplaces is more complete, as validated in the original paper [40]. We next discuss the limitations of our study in two main areas: first, to what extent our data captures the commoditization of cybercrime and, second, the way we mapped the offerings on these markets onto categories of demand.Observing cybercrime commoditization starts with knowing where to look. Even when criminals do follow TCE, some forms of commoditized cybercrime do not fit well with online anonymous markets: subscription models, affiliate programs, services requiring a rich search interface, or non-English offerings [26,48] are all ill-suited to the type of markets we are investigating here. Leukfeldt et al. [33] investigated 40 cybercriminal networks using European and American police cases and interviews, Soudijn and Zegers [41] use data from a seized carding forum to unravel the collaboration between involved actors and Hutchings [28] studied the concept of co-offending in cybercrime and more specifically knowledge transmission amongst cybercriminals and identified distinct typologies of collaboration, ranging from fluid networks to real co-offending. There is a huge discrepancy between the reported profitability of criminal business models like ransomware (over $1 billion in 2016, according to the FBI [20]) or DDoS-services (one youngster making $385,000 with his booter-service according to local British police [2]) and the marginal markets for cybercrime commodities. Prominent clusters of the App category include offers for Android loggers, i.e., malicious keylogger apps, Android bank apps, i.e., malicious banking apps, and Dendroid, a RAT for Android.