Various justifications for password expiration have been found: the longer a password is 'alive', the higher the chance of compromise and the need to reset passwords (due to sustained attacks or inevitable leakage), or, that expiration limits the portability of a compromised password, as old passwords may be replicated on other services for convenience [8,15,28]. Further, passwords of sufficient strength can be combined with background protections to be strong enough in most scenarios: a password which can resist 10 6 guesses is all but uncrackable in an online attack scenario [25], if combined with sensible throttling [25,45]. Both the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST, US, [26]) and the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC, UK, [34]) now prescribe that passwords should not expire unless there is evidence of compromise.A holistic view of password policy management is required in practice. The new policy allows users to select any password of character length 8 or more with an estimated information entropy (Shannon entropy, a poor measure of cracking resistance, but still widely deployed) of at least 50 bits (see Section 3.3 for the policy specifics). Our approach is novel as we analyse routine change and intentional reset events together, to understand individual users' journeys through adoption and continued use of the new system. Traditionally, password strength has been measured as the entropy of a password through a calculation involving a password's length and the different number of character classes it uses [30] (Shannon entropy, which is also the estimation technique our institution uses, albeit with a few modifications as described in Section 3.3). In the context of an organisation it is not sufficient for the mean password strength to achieve this level: an attacker is often satisfied when compromising any one account with access to an asset of value, hence every password needs to withstand such an attack, which is infeasible [27]. Users have been subjected to immediate feedback and suggestions before submitting their password choices [38,39] with varying degrees of success. Research has attempted to improve users' ability to remember passwords, for example by allowing much longer composite passwords [40], memory aids [47], or training [14]. More recently Bonneau pushed the scientific principles of conducting password research by legitimately and rigorously analysing passwords of 70 million Yahoo! users [7]. Yet in all of these cases the user is often a customer of the organisation, with two consequences: service password policies tend to bow to the need for accessibility, as services that make access difficult don't have as many customers [21]. The authors discover significant correlations between a number of demographic and behavioural factors and password strength, and we will be comparing our demographic findings to this research primarily.Related to passwords, Parkin et al. studied a static password expiration policy of 100 days in a university, contrasting the analysis of helpdesk-related system events over a period of 30 months to findings from a small set of 20 interviews with system users [35]. Between 164 and 223 days a password is considered to be Strong (green bar), and beyond that the password is classed as Very strong (dark green bar). We received access to the password change and reset logs, which consisted of timestamps, anonymised user IDs, action performed (i.e., change/reset/etc), the integer password lifetime of the new password (100-350), as well as some coarse demographics information for the 100,000 users. Passwords are required to: include at least one character from three of four possible character types (lowercase character, uppercase character, number, and symbol); be between 8 and 30 characters long, and; not contain the user's username or parts of their real name. Students may have access to their own information, but also the university's IT infrastructure; postgraduate students might have access to research data. We also expect administrative staff to value their account security while balancing any increases to password strength (delaying password change) with lower time cost per system authentication event. In addition to the password log analysis, 93 users of university systems were interviewed between February and March '17 (53 students and 40 staff). Interviews were approximately 30 minutes in duration, and included discussion of: services accessed through university login; perceptions of passwords and security in relation to university-related tasks, and; participants views of the university's password system. The histogram is strongly skewed to the left and decays rapidly, apart from approximately 1% of passwords that achieve the maximum strength of 350 days.It is interesting to compare this distribution to the password strength distribution of Mazurek There are two systematic explanations for these stark differences. Figure 2 highlights three families of events.From the deployment of the new system in October '16 the userbase of the new system slowly grows as users change or reset their passwords (where this forces them to use the new system and hence appear in the dataset). At 350 days users change their previously strongest passwords to one that is as strong or weaker password, causing a pronounced dip in the average password expiration.There is a strong positive correlation between each user's previous password strength and the likelihood of that same user resetting their password before expiration (i.e., forgetting the password, Spearman's ρ = 0.95, p < 10 −15 ). The authors are then able to break 17% of their accounts within 5 guesses, and 41% within 3 sec of CPU time (≈ 10 7 guesses, our estimate) [49]. The change rate initially decays before exhibiting the shape of a gamma distribution starting at 70 days -at the time of the first expiration warning email for passwords of 100-day strength, peaking at just before day 100, when a large number of user passwords expire.These results imply that users reset their passwords primarily for two reasons: failure to recall the password, and the forced expiration of the password by the system. In Fig- ures 2 and 8 to 10 we apply the same 31-day moving window to smooth out fluctuations due to weekly patterns (e.g., weekends, when most users are not actively using the system). This manifests twice in Figure 8: at the start of the deployment of the new system where there are no existing users (the increase in password strength is delayed until February '17); and again with the enrollment of over 10, 000 new users who set their first password around September '17 (see Figure 2), in time for the start of the new academic year. For example, Teaching/Research staff are likely to value their account security highly (using their accounts to access research and teaching data, which undergraduate students for instance would not.We observe that this group has the highest average password strength.Administrative staff may value their account security highly too, but they also have a high frequency of use of the password, which may act to moderate their password strength. With the introduction of the new system, participants were split as to whether they believed passwords should be expired or remain valid indefinitely.There was a general even split among interview participants as to whether they saw a link between password age and password strength. The data supports this, as a year after deployment users' average password strength has yet to settle (as notable in Figure 8). This could potentially be as much about discovering the features of the new system as it is about skillfully using it. For those who were aware of it, some did see it as an incentive to make a stronger password, such as E20:"If they say if you make a stronger password you can keep it for longer, maybe it would help. "Conversely, E25 found it difficult to create a valid password that was not labelled 'Weak':"I probably tried about 6-7 passwords before I got to the one that it would accept ... It [the password meter] just kept not getting past the failed point ..."Others would consider password length alongside the need to type the password many times, and as a result would aim for a 'Medium'-strength password of around 8-12 characters. "A number of participants commented that although they had created a longer password than before, they immediately reset their password as they found it too complicated to type, such as S17:"even though I could remember it wasn't practically very helpful if you have to put in you know twenty characters. "This aligns with our findings in Figure 4 and Section 4.2, and also with Mazurek et al.'s engagement with system users [32]: those finding longer passwords unworkable will act to find a solution which is workable, abandoning the potential for longer lifetimes.The summatory findings indicate that there may be a number of factors influencing password choice which are not represented in the dataset. It could be that system usability hinders the adoption of the policy for a proportion of users.As noted by Adams & Sasse, [1], most users in an organisation will want to behave securely, where insecure behaviour arises as they try to manage excessive demands in their workplace (where security would be just one of those demands). That the changes across different departments and user groups follow relatively similar patterns suggests that there was a collective change in password use, perhaps due to a collective culture towards security or influence from how peers are seen to behave.From a security perspective, the implications of our results are clear. A further hidden cost arises from the interruption of the primary task from expiration of passwords, the reminder emails, and the planning of when to next change one's password (as one might be about to travel or go on leave, for instance). In studying the use of passwords and support of users in a large organisation, Brostoff [10] identified a range of 'costs' related to the expiry of passwords, such as designing new passwords, re-design of a candidate password if the system does not permit it, and amending any recall aids such as written notes. A similar approach to the work described in [41], of asking users to complete diaries -or otherwise report on their experience of using the system -may more clearly identify the workload caused by the authentication system. Albesë Demjaha, Julienne Park, and Nissy Sombatruang contributed to the collection and initial analysis of user interviews. The authors wish to also extend thanks to the USENIX Security review committee and Lujo Bauer in particular.