We explicitly did not request information about or publish details about security protocols that could compromise source identities, sensitive information, or future work.All interview participants agreed to be audio recorded during the interview and answered all of the questions in the interview script. Only one-quarter (25%) reported that they frequently used PGP prior to participation in the Panama Papers project.Given journalists' limited familiarity with strong security practices prior to the Panama Papers project, we note that ICIJ's decision to mandate PGP for all collaborators is especially striking. When rating the utility/necessity of the technology services provided by ICIJ (summarized in Table 3), the vast majority of participants reported that the technology was essential (83% for data and tools and 78% for coordination). Maybe ICIJ can explore other ways to Independent 1 3% 2 4% 3 6% 4 14% 5 25% 6 17% Collaborative 7 32% Table 5: Collaboration Outside Own Organization (N=118). Key security aspects of all systems includes careful vetting of the source documents (including scanning them for known malware), deploying welltested HTTPS, and requiring two-factor authentication for each of the three core systems.The team experimented with multiple versions of twofactor authentication, including virtual machines (discarded as too complex) and browser extensions (discarded as insufficiently secure). (E3) ICIJ also provided accessible (human) technical support:We also have a support channel... So we're always assisting them all the time with their technological needs... Some of them forgot to change their phones... [and] didn't know how to re-install or how to reconnect with a new authenticator. Where ICIJ systems didn't meet a particular need, however, contributors often reached for tools mandated by ICIJ (e.g., PGP) or other secure alternatives, thanks to the overarching security culture of the project, and the familiarity with and trust in these tools that the project provided:I don't like using PGP on the cell phone particularly. Finally, we thank our anonymous reviewers and our shepherd, Adrienne Porter Felt, for valuable feedback on an earlier version. For 9.A-C, the scale was: Never heard of it before, Knew about it but hadn't used, Had used a few times, Used occasionally, Used frequently. [short answer] B Appendix: Interview InstrumentsThis appendix contains our interview script for ICIJ editorial personnel and for ICIJ technical staff. If so, was there any service/feature embedded with the file server, to detect and clean malware when a file is uploaded? Thanks for helping us to improve global collaboration in journalism! Was their access to the design and/or implementation details of the project limited in any way? In order to assess how well contributors' reported usefulness of the ICIJ systems matched their actual behaviors, we analyzed survey data on how frequently journalists used Blacklight, I-Hub, and Linkurious (see Figures 1- 3). (E3) ICIJ also maintained a careful balance between mandating security protocols and adding user-requested features (e.g. batch search), creating a sense of balance and equal partnership between the organization and journalist-collaborators:Once you have users, users will ask for things. To the best of your knowledge:(a) Were there specific password requirements (e.g., length, various characters, etc.)? Yet we note that the security culture among these journalists was strong enough by this point that they were willing to tolerate several months of reduced functionality for security purposes.Achieving these secure defaults, however, was not the result of voluntary collective action: at some point, ICIJ mandated that all contributors create and use a PGP key:It was not a choice... If somebody did not get themselves a PGP, he did not get access to the forum and to the I-Hub. Similarly, the importance of clear communication around security suggests that tying security requirements to demonstrable professional advantage, along with clear expectationsetting (including negative consequences) are key factors in motivating journalists to adopt and maintain even potentially onerous security practices.Recommendations for Socio-Technical Systems. We do not claim causality, ultimate system security, or lack of vulnerabilities, but rather identify factors that may have contributed to the ICIJ's success in achieving their security goals (protecting the source and preserving the secrecy of the project until the desired launch date) in a complex socio-technical system.Thus, the measures describes above should not be interpreted as a guarantee of security or recipe for success, nor a complete technical description of the systems used. To maximize the insight gained from these interviews, we designed the interview script using information from a careful review of public information available about the systems (e.g., [10,36]), as well as insight from an IRB-approved background (pilot) interview with an individual member of the Panama Papers project who had intimate knowledge of the systems involved. For editorial staff only: Were there specific plans in place for detecting and/or handling system exposures or security incidents? Today, all notification emails from those systems are also encrypted by default.Initially, however, contributors could receive password rest information via HushMail HushMail, and unencrypted system notifications still included details like the summary of an updated thread. Due in part to the cost of more robust DDoS protection, project leads opted to maintain endpoint secrecy:If someone gets the location of the servers, they can do several attacks... We are prepared for this, for brute force [authentication] attacks... But yeah they also can send a DDoS attack, for example... So we have to protect the location, the server location. We found that users will accept strict security requirements in order to use tools critical to their core (nonsecurity) efforts; that a strategy of reducing security decisions by making secure behavior the default and providing secure alternatives for functionality not directly supported may discourage insecure "workaround" behaviors; that leveraging peer relationships can help foster a collaborative culture with a shared sense of security responsibility; and that inviting-and engaging-input from users helps establish a sense of reciprocity that facilitates their adoption of security mandates. To evaluate the significance of the Panama Papers project as a "security success story," we analyzed survey results to determine whether prior security expertise of the journalist contributors may have been a factor.In fact, in response to a question about prior familiarity with digital security practices (see Table 1), almost half of participants indicated that they were "Unaware" of or had "Never" used PGP or two-factor authentication prior to this project (47% and 45% respectively). Pfleeger et al. [48] discuss the rollout of security mandates in the context of employees' mental workload and interaction with their primary task flow, All of these factors from prior work-peer trust relationships, organizational security culture and norms, and integration with primary tasks-are echoed in our findings.Other fields, including managerial and behavioral studies as well as social psychology and sensemaking, also consider the role of employee-culture in general managerial compliance. A key success factor was the ICIJ's willingness to commit resources to developing useful and secure systems: For the computer security research community, this case study represent a rare example of security success, achieved despite many complicating factors. In addition, frequent project updates and security reminders from the ICIJ team-as well as specific design elements of I-Hub-helped further develop this sense of team and trust:[On the I-Hub,] the small things, like the fact that there's an avatar and you can see the face of the journalist, and you can have direct communications and all that. . . it helps with trust. One of the proposals was to use an encrypted version of MySQL [CryptDB]... the passwords have to be stored on the servers themselves... So what's the point? For editorial staff only: Were there any features that you would have liked to see included in the system, but that could not be integrated for technical reasons? We also cannot tease out the importance of other potentially relevant factors, such as whether the small size of ICIJ itself helped facilitate organizational consensus on security issues.Two key directions for future work, then, include (1) conducting additional case studies of socio-technical security successes and (2) comparing these case studies to clarify which factors are necessary and/or sufficient. (E1)One reason that I-Hub may have been so easily adopted was its explicit similarity to familiar technologies (see also Figure 2):You can upload files, you can "like" a topic. As technology has enabled geographically distributed teamwork, top-down management has given way to decentralization and flat hierarchies [14] This change has security implications: top-down enforcement has been shown to be less effective than socially embedded, trustbased cultural compliance [37]. In addition to surveillance, such groups have also been the target of malware attacks and tailored phishing attacks, on which several case studies have been published [21,39]. Project leads at ICIJ also clearly and frequently communicated the importance of security and what was at stake:In every editorial note I would write, I would remind [contributors] about some security measure, how it takes one of us to make a mistake for the whole thing to basically fall to hell, and you would lose an entire year of work, and we would be-a joke basically. For technical staff only: Why was BlackLight selected as the base project from which to create the Panama Papers system? The revelations contained in these "Panama Papers" led to the ouster of Icelandic Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson [17], and helped instigate investigations from Argentina and Australia to Canada, Denmark, France, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Pakistan, and others [42]. On April 3, 2016, a coordinated network of dozens of news organizations around the world [32] began publishing stories based on a set of year-long investigations into the uses of offshore funds by clients of the Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca. To uncover the factors that contributed to the Panama Papers' security success, we (1) analyze survey data collected from 118 journalists involved in the project, and (2) conduct in-depth, semi-structured interviews with the designers and implementers of the technical systems and collaborative processes underpinning the Panama Papers collaboration. During this effort, a large, diverse group of globally-distributed journalists met and maintained critical security goals-including protecting the source of the leaked documents and preserving the secrecy of the project until the desired launch date-all while hundreds of journalists collaborated remotely on a near-daily basis. We understand that there were two primary systems used to manage the Panama Papers project: BlackLight and I-Hub. These circumstances therefore also gave rise to specific technical security requirements for inter-organizational collaboration.Survey participants were asked to rate how much they collaborated outside of their own organization on a scale of 1 -7 (where 1 indicated "I worked independently" and 7 indicated "I've collaborated more than ever"). For example, a training document explicitly warned contributors against using thirdparty applications to translate, OCR or visualize the Panama Papers data, and encouraged storing local data from the project only in encrypted, hidden volumes.These concerns informed the system design in myriad ways. Participants completed the survey via a Google form and took around 10 minutes to complete. These factors a blend of both "social influence processes" (e.g., working norm, voluntariness, and image) and "cognitive instrumental processes" (e.g., job relevance, output quality, perceived ease of use) [57]. (IT2)Our findings here align with research from management science, such as the Technology Acceptance Model [15,56,57], which argues that successful technology adoption in organizations depends not on mandated compliance, but rather on (1) usefulness and (2) ease of use. 3. Using an inductive process we completed an initial round of qualitative coding to identify key themes, as substantive categories emerged from the data via grounded theory analysis [19]. Similarly, insufficient attention by system and security experts to the specific work needs and task priorities of users may lead to brittle systems: tools and protocols that do not offer multiple methods for meeting a particular security requirement (e.g. textbased communication), may lead users to rely on insecure workarounds to meet their needs. For technical staff only: Were there specific plans in place for detecting and/or handling security incidents? Due to the enormous volume of data and documents involved (2.6 TB consisting of about 11.5 million documents), as well as their global nature, remote search and collaboration were essentialpriorities that were clearly shared by both the editorial and technical staff:The needs are... communicate, and search documents, and to do it collaboratively. For example, were there automated intrusion detection systems, or checks on the locations of system access? From both a functionality and support perspective, do you think the systems used for the Panama Papers are scalable to a larger number of projects and/or users? (E2)The result was a pace of security upgrades that matched users' investment in and need for the systems:So we have people to teach them how to [set up their PGP key], we have a support team that can help them. . . It went well because they were interested in keeping the access to the [platform]. These works identified computer security challenges due to, e.g., the fragility of journalists' relationships with their sources, as well as the limited resources available within journalistic organizations.Like NGOs and activist groups, journalists' work makes them high-value targets for cyberattack and surveillance (e.g., [20]). Through examination of the Panama Papers project, then, we seek to learn (1) what technical and human factors facilitated the successful preservation of the project's security goals and, (2) what lessons can be drawn from this case study to support the development of similarly effective processes for both journalistic collaborations and secure, usable systems in general. On a scale from 1 -7, where 1 is "Super easy" and 7 is "Extremely hard", how challenging was it to comply with the digital security requirements?compliance with the security requirements on the "easy" side of the scale. Success stories in usable security are rare. Are there any [design or deployment / technical or system design] lessons you learned from this project that you intend to apply to the design of future systems, whether for similar projects or not? Topics for both groups included questions about the participants' background, their experience with the overall system, system functionality, any training they offered as part of the project, any breaches or failures they were aware of, and the potential scalability of the system. ICIJ's tools were therefore crucial to effective collaboration across timezone and language barriers:With cultural barriers, with language barriers and with time zones and all that... I think it was just the speed and the friendliness... it made 11 million documents look easy, look doable, and look-because it was easy and friendly to use, it became addictive to the reporters doing searches... and I like that. 