Modern HTML5 standards and the constant evolution of JavaScript enable the development and delivery of office suites, photo-editing software, collaboration tools, and a wide range of other complex applications, all using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and all delivered and rendered through the user's browser.This increase in capabilities requires more and more complex server-side and client-side code to be able to deliver the features that users have come to expect. The principle of software debloating has been successfully tried on operating systems (both to build unikernel OSs [53] and to remove unnecessary code from the Linux kernel [51,52]) and more recently on shared libraries [56,61] and compiled binary applications [42]. • We use this pipeline to precisely quantify the security benefits of debloating web applications, finding that debloating pays large dividends in terms of security, by reducing a web application's source code, cyclomatic complexity, and vulnerability to known attacks.To motivate further research into debloating web applications and to ensure the reproducibility of our findings, we are releasing all data and software artifacts. Similarly, PyPI, the package manager for Python, reports more than a billion a month [30], while Packagist, the main repository for Composer package manager for PHP, reports the download of 500 million packages each month [29]. Drupal, a popular PHP Content Management System (CMS), was also affected by the same vulnerability since it uses libraries from the Symfony framework to handle parts of its internal logic [26]. Even if developers take all possible precautions to minimize vulnerabilities in their own code, flaws from external dependencies can cascade and lead to a critical entry point for an attacker.Overall, there are clear benefits that debloating could have on web applications. In the middle part of our pipeline, the debloating engine takes both the target applications and coverage information to perform debloating at different levels of granularity, and rewrite parts of the application to remove unused pieces of code based on the debloating strategy being evaluated (Steps 4 and 5, Section 4). As an final step of verification, we also test the debloated applications against a series of exploits and verify that exploits which abuse any of the vulnerabilities that were removed as part of the debloating process, do not succeed (Step 6, Section 5.6). To this end, we selected phpMyAdmin [60], MediaWiki [59], Magento [58], and WordPress [75], which are representative samples of four different types of web applications namely web-administration tools, wikis, online shops, and blogging software. Even though there exist multiple databases listing the current and historical CVEs of popular software (including the web applications in question) [36,37], locating the actual source code containing the vulnerability described in a CVE, is a non-trivial process which requires careful investigation. One change in a form field or in a selector can break the complete flow of a test suite and we observed a significant number of cases with slight interface changes between two consecutive versions of the same application.Overall, after fine-tuning the scripts for all our tested versions, we obtained 46 tutorials which translated into 302 use cases scripted as Selenium tests requiring 16,025 lines of code. Full details are available in the actual tutorials and in the Selenium scripts which we will release together with this paper.Actions covered by phpMyAdmin tutorials: As a web administration tool, all phpMyAdmin functionality is protected by an authentication mechanism. They also include administration tasks such as adding new user accounts, optimizing databases, checking database server status, obtaining performance metrics, and accessing server settings such as variables, charsets, and engines.Actions covered by MediaWiki tutorials: MediaWiki provides different features depending on the privileges of the user. Similar to WordPress, the tutorials mostly target administration tasks which include store settings, advanced product search options, order notification via RSS, product pricing, currencies and tax rules, delivery and payment methods, emails and notifications, reviews and ratings and cache control. In addition, by feeding random key strokes into forms, monkey testing can bring the application in an error state thus exercising error-handling pieces of code.We rely on the stress-testing library called gremlins.js [7] in conjunction with the GreaseMonkey browser extension [6] to inject the library into web application pages. Overall, we perform the following modifications: i) we remove all links that lead to external pages, ii) we remove logout buttons for applications that require authentication, iii) we override the aforementioned JavaScript functions and iv) we set a timeout to detect when the monkey is stuck and reset it to a known good state. We use BurpSuite Scanner v2.0.14beta [2] based on the URLs extracted by the spider to look for vulnerabilities in headers, URLs and forms. The authors utilized their own profiler and took advantage of the auto append built-in function of PHP to add the necessary log functions at the very end of all PHP files [1]. For our study, we initially attempted to use the same approach and ran preliminary tests by appending XDebug function calls at the end of our tested files. Given that any PHP file can call the exit() or die() function at any time to terminate the current script, our XDebug calls which were located at the end of each file, were not always executed thus leading to under-reported code coverage. To get full coverage, we use the following approach: our own shutdown function will perform a late registration of a final shutdown function that will be added at the very end of the execution queue. If objects are destroyed before the shutdown functions are executed, our framework has no issue recording them. For example, tutorials trigger To evaluate the effectiveness of our two debloating strategies, we computed different metrics that provide insights into what has actually been removed during the debloating process. This larger reduction (compared to MediaWiki and Magento) is mainly due to the differences in software development practices.Compared to the other tested applications, phpMyAdmin and WordPress are more monolithic with a smaller number of large source-code files. A high CC for a single class implies complicated code that is difficult to debug and maintain [39] and therefore more prone to contain vulnerabilities when compared to code with low CC [52,69]. Figure 4 reports on the evolution of the overall CC for each tested version in our experiment. These statistics demonstrate that debloating can remove complex instructions and execution paths in addition to simple ones. For example, the code-execution vulnerabilities that can be removed for phpMyAdmin are inside very specific features, such as, the ability to export PHP arrays (CVE-2016-6609), the support of the ZIP extension while importing data (CVE-2016-6633), and the abilities to copy table definitions (CVE-2013-3238) and perform Regex search and replace over table columns (CVE-2016-5734). Property Oriented Programing (POP) is an exploitation technique in PHP which works similarly to Return Oriented Programming (ROP) [67] and is used to exploit PHP Object Injection (POI) vulnerabilities [11]. The downside of this new function was that it also allowed attackers to instantiate any PHP class across the entire application thereby enabling the easier construction of gadget chains.In order to build a chain, attackers use these so-called "magic" functions [13] that form the basis of their gadget chain. Given the increased footprint of web applications due to their reliance on package managers and external dependencies, one may wonder about the possibility of abuse of these packages for We analyzed the available gadget chains in PHPGGC and checked whether any of our tested PHP applications included these chains. For the affected applications, file-level debloating removes 4/6 gadgets while function debloating removes 6/6 available gadget chains. If this specific directory happens to be accessible through a misconfiguration of the server, PHPUnit files are then accessible and can be exploited to conduct an RCE attack.The four web applications that we evaluated for this study, present different behaviors with respect to development packages. Magento started including them from version 2.0 and still includes them today. In the previous sections, we analyzed the effects of debloating on the source code of applications from a software-engineering perspective (i.e. LLOC and Cyclomatic Complexity reduction) as well as from a security standpoint (i.e. number of CVEs and gadgets removed). At the same time, one may wonder what exactly was removed from each application during the process of debloating.Given that thousands of files were removed, manually analyzing each file does not scale. Across all four applications, we observe the removal of source code related to external packages (e.g. Symfony for phpMyAdmin, Elastica for MediaWiki, and Table 5: Features and external packages with the most removed files after file debloating (removed features are marked in italic). The LLOC for the removed test files is less than 2% of the whole code base of the application.MediaWiki provides an API to interact with the wiki which is separate from the regular web interface that users interact with. Top categories of removed files consist of localization of messages and language files in addition to external dependencies (Lines 2 and 3) as listed in Table 5. Debloating removes the source code of disabled and unused features and therefore does not suffer from this type of attack. The removed features of WordPress include installation files, unused modules (FTP, multi-site, user registration), disabled themes and update files (note that we could not exercise update files during our tests because this would change the version of the evaluated web application and create inconsistencies in our analysis of removed CVEs). To ensure the correct mapping of CVEs to source code and the ability of debloating to stop real attacks, we collected 4 exploits available in the Metasploit framework and augmented them with 4 POCs that we developed based on public bug-tracker records and vulnerability details. Without XDebug With CC Figure 6: Measurement of the CPU consumption for the tested web applications. In this section, we report on the results of conducting all the Selenium tests with and without XDebug (our chosen PHP profiler) while measuring execution time, and recording server-side CPU usage and memory consumption. For example the set of five file-upload-related vulnerabilities in our MediaWiki dataset (marked as gray in Table 9) require access to file upload functionality which is disabled by default. A maintained set of automated, replayable exploits against popular web applications similar to "BugBox" introduced by Nilson et al. in 2013, could substantially help researchers at this step [57]. This limitation only applies to reported numbers on removed CVEs and does not affect our results on POI gadgets since their mere existence is enough for them to be used in gadget chains.Our approach results in lower bounds for CVE removal since disabling modules through application configuration does not guarantee removal of all code paths that trigger those modules. Taking CVE-2019-6703 as an example, a vulnerability was discovered in the WordPress "Total Donations" plugin [32] and disabling this plugin did not prevent attackers from invoking the vulnerable end point and running their exploits.Dynamic code coverage: Given our reliance on dynamic code-coverage techniques, it is clear that the success of debloating a web application is tightly related to its usage profile. As such, we intend to follow-up this work with crowd sourcing and user studies to understand how administrators, developers, and regular users utilize the evaluated web applications and whether their usage profiles would allow for similar levels of debloating.Due to nature of our approach, we can not take advantage of standard static-analysis techniques, since we aim to remove the features that are not useful for a given set of users, not those that are not reachable by other code. Using static analysis would greatly overestimate the code that needs to be maintained through the process of debloating and the resulting web application would contain code (and therefore vulnerabilities) that is not useful to all users. We leave the design of such systems for future work.Metrics to measure debloating effectiveness: In this paper, we use Cyclomatic Complexity (CC), Logical Lines of Code (LLOC), reduction in historical CVEs, and POP gadget reduction as four metrics to measure the effects of debloating on different web applications. The drawback of this metric is its unavailability for proprietary software and the manual effort required to map CVEs to source code and verify their exploitability.Debloating effectiveness: Through our debloating experiments we discovered that, in terms of debloating, not all applications are "equal." The authors evaluated the use of different JavaScript APIs in the wild and proposed the use of a client-side extension which controls which APIs any given website would get access to, depending on that website's level of trust. These studies are orthogonal to our work since they both focus on the client-side of the web platform, whereas we focus on the server-side web applications.Boomsma et al. performed dynamic profiling of a custom web application (a PHP application from an industry partner) [34]. Sun et al. designed a framework called Perses that utilizes the grammar of any programming language to guide reduction [71]. Its advantage is that it does not generate syntactically invalid variants during reduction so that the whole process is made faster.Heo et al. worked on Chisel whose distinguishing feature is that it performs fine-grained debloating by removing code even on the functions that are executed, using reinforcement learning to identify the best reduced program [42]. Finally, we showed that the process of debloating also removes instructions and classes that are the primary sources for attackers to build gadgets and perform POI attacks.Our results demonstrate that debloating web applications provides tangible security benefits and therefore should be seriously considered as a practical way of reducing the attack surface of web-applications deployments.