In this work, we provide a method to quantify the emotional association of basic emotions such as anger, fear, joy, and sadness for a set of emojis. We collect and process a unique corpus of 20 million emoji-centric tweets, such that we can capture rich emoji semantics using a comparably small dataset. Most of these studies relied upon a crowdsourcing approach to compile the data and lexicons and to capture relationships among linguistic and paralinguistic elements ( Kulahcioglu and de Melo, 2019). For instance, we may ultimately be interested in devising a system that jointly assesses the affect conveyed by a tweet based not only on the words, but also in part on the emojis occurring within it. Currently, there are no readily available resources to understand the direct relationship between emojis and emotions.We address this gap by harvesting an emojicentric collection of tweets. The name alludes to its usefulness in exploiting emoji for emotional tag-ging. His work then goes on to study the role of such forms of facial expression in conveying to others how an animal feels, studying primates as well as human infants and adults.In light of this, humans continue to rely extensively on such nonverbal cues even in oral forms of linguistic communication. Although a person's emotion and mood can to some extent be conveyed by means of suitable content words (e.g., "I am happy to hear that!") Despite the lexicographic similarity between the two words emoji and emotion, etymologically, the former stems from the Japanese words (e, picture) and (moji, character). In 2015, Oxford Dictionaries declared the Face with Tears of Joy emoji its Word of the Year 2015. Davidov et al. (2010) adopted a fairly similar approach by handpicking smileys and hashtags as tweet labels and relying on a supervised method for sentiment analysis of tweets.Emoji Semantics. Barbieri et al. (2016) proposed a method to learn vector space embeddings of emojis using the standard word2vec skip-gram approach, applied to a large collection of tweets. The first paper that thoroughly investigated the sentiment of emojis (No- vak et al., 2015) proposed a sentiment ranking of 715 emojis on a corpus of 70,000 tweets. We begin by assembling a dataset for this purpose (Section 4.1), and subsequently induce a series of lexicons that reveal potential connections (Section 4.2), including between words and emojis, as well as between emojis and emotions. To this end, we relied on a set of most frequently used 620 emojis from No- vak et al. (2015) and from Emoji Tracker 1 , a website that monitors the use of emojis on Twitter in realtime.Using our set of frequent emojis as search terms, we retrieved tweets that specifically contain one or more of these target emojis. To clean up the data, we removed usernames (marked with @-symbol), tweets consisting only of hashtags and emojis but no text, tweets that only contain a short time stamp such as "6AM" or simply a URL (with or without the "http://" prefix), as well as all duplicate tweets. These resources can be useful for the community, but also allow us to conduct analyses of the data.In our tweet collection, there are roughly 36K tweets per emoji, and these have a uniform distribution across the collection time period.Inspecting the results, we observe that the overall top-ranked pair of co-occurring emojis in our dataset is U+1F61D and U+1F61C . According to Novak et al. (2015), the sentiment value of U+1F62D is -0.093, whereas the sentiment value of U+1F602 is 0.221, i.e., a positive sentiment. Another lexicon that we produce aims to provide co-occurring words for a given emoji, or, vice versa, emojis for a given word. Table 2 shows an excerpt of the emoji-word lexicon, grouped by words. Previous work has proposed interpretable word vectors consisting of one or more sentiment polarity scores for a word (Dong and de Melo, 2018; Dong and de . This can be achieved by assigning every word a 620-dimensional word vector, in which each dimension reflects the association of that word with one out of 620 emojis. An obvious method would be to adopt just simple frequency counts as the values in these vectors, i.e., for a given word, the entries in its word vector would simply reflect the number of times that word co-occurred with a given emoji.However, we can improve over this by relying on the word2vec Skip-Gram with Negative Sampling algorithm ( Mikolov et al., 2013) as an intermediate representation, as illustrated in Fig. 1. In the following, we evaluate EmoTag for machine learning-driven emotion analysis of tweets and show how it can be used to reveal the sentiment and emotion of individual emojis.The first study aims at evaluating the usefulness of our interpretable EmoTag word vectors in a downstream task, exploiting them in a machine learning-driven system that seeks to identify the emotion intensity of tweets.Subsequently, we use our data to compute sentiment polarity scores for emojis, comparing these against existing human annotations of emoji sentiment.Finally, we develop the first resource providing emotion scores for emojis. In particular, we consider the EmoInt Shared Task from WASSA (Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment & Social Media Analysis) 2017 (Mohammad and Bravo-Marquez, 2017a), which involves determining the intensity or degree of emotion felt by a speaker when a tweet and a target emotion are given. We rely on a deep neural network to predict the emotion intensity for each tweet, adopting a similar CNN-LSTM architecture as that of IMS ( Köper et al., 2017), the 2nd-ranked system among all participants in the competition, with the CNN architecture based on that proposed by Kim (2014). This numerical value was then added as a feature along with other auxiliary features, and passed to a Random Forest regressor to obtain the final intensity score for a particular emotion. For obtaining sentiment scores, we rely on the NRC Emotion Lexicon EmoLex (Moham- mad and Turney, 2013), a list of English words and their associations with eight basic emotions (anger, fear, anticipation, trust, surprise, sadness, joy, and disgust) and two sentiments (negative and positive). To evaluate the sentiment score of emojis, we measure the Pearson correlations for several groups of emojis treating the scores by Novak et al. (2015) as gold scores. For some emojis, our model obtains a high sentiment score such as 0.991 for "Kissing Cat Face Correlations Top 100 positive emojis 0.71 Emojis with face 0.45 Monkey face emojis 0.53 Emojis with kissing 0.14 Table 5: Pearson Correlations for Sentiment Score with Closed Eyes" U+1F63D, whereas the score by Novak et al. (2015) is 0.571. First, for each emoji, we identify the top K in EmoLex according to their cosine similarity with the emoji, as obtained in our interpretable word vectors, where a higher similarity score entails a higher rank. This weighted average then serves as the final emotion score of the emoji. We evaluate our induced emoji emotion scores indirectly by using them to reproduce emotion intensity scores for words, for which we have ground truth intensity scores in the Affect Intensity lexicon by (Mohammad, 2018). It provides crowdsourced emotion intensity scores, which range between 0 and 1, with 1 meaning that the word exhibits the highest degree of association with a particular emotion and 0 referring to the lowest degree. These correlations reveal how close we are in predicting the emotion score for a given word based on our emoji emotion scores. Table 8: Pearson Correlations of gold scores and our predicted scores for Affect Intensity lexicon lighted in red) at which our scoring would fail. It also shows how an interpretable word embedding can be formed with the help of emojis, which shows promise as an additional ingredient in emotion detection-related tasks.Another key contribution of this work is the creation of a large resource, consisting of several different sub-lexicons that describe connections among emoji, words, and other items, as well as emotion scores for emojis, which are released to the public 2 .