Researchers have observed the increasing commoditiza-tion of cybercrime, that is, the offering of capabilities, services, and resources as commodities by specialized suppliers in the underground economy. What kind of revenue do criminal business-to-business (B2B) services generate and how fast are they growing? We find evidence of com-moditization in most components, but the outsourcing options are highly restricted and transaction volume is often modest. Consistent with behavior observed in the context of narcotic sales, we also find a significant amount of revenue in retail cybercrime, i.e., business-to-consumer (B2C) rather than business-to-business. We conservatively estimate the overall revenue for cybercrime commodities on online anonymous markets to be at least US $15M between 2011-2017. Prior work found strong evidence for specific cases of commoditization: booters offering DDoS services [29], suppliers in "payper-install" markets distributing malware [13], and exploit kit developers supplying "drive-by" browser compromises [22]. We argue that the characteristics of commodities are highly congruent with the characteristics of online anonymous marketplaces. Indeed, these platforms can reach a large audience and provide risk management services for criminals, e.g., by protecting their anonymity, and featuring reputation systems to root out fraudulent sales and shield sellers from risky interactions with buyers.While data from online anonymous marketplaces provides a unique opportunity to track the evolution of commoditization, we are not arguing that these marketplaces provide a complete picture. Yet, on balance, the congruence of commoditized forms of cybercrime and online anonymous markets means that the evolution of commodizitation should be clearly observable on those markets.We analyze longitudinal data on the offerings and transactions from eight online anonymous marketplaces, collected between 2011 and 2017. We first present a conceptual model of the value chain components in dominant criminal business models, and develop a classifier to map cybercrime-related listings across all markets to these components. We then discuss the type of offerings to assess to what extent each component can be outsourced -i.e., to what extent it is successfully commoditized. • We demonstrate that commoditization is a more spotty phenomenon than previously assumed. Section 5 lays down our classification analysis, and section 6 identifies the best-selling clusters of cybercrime components. Here, we apply TCE to the context of cybercrime to predict if and when outsourcing takes place.Williamson [47] distinguishes several asset characteristics that determine if and how outsourcing will occur, as shown in Figure 1. k is a measure of asset specificity, referring to the degree to which a product or service is specific to e.g., a vendor, location, control over resources, etc. Transactions where investments are exposed to unrelieved contractual hazards (s = 0) will not be traded pub-licly (i.e., anonymous online marketplaces such as Silk Road or AlphaBay are a poor fit), but on smaller, "inviteonly" markets where trust relations are forged among specialized insiders, anonymity is not absolute, and escrow services are less prominent [36]. For transactions where k = 0, "no specific assets are involved and the parties are essentially faceless" [46, p. 20], which is precisely the case for anonymous markets. TCE tells us that the organization of criminal activities will be guided primarily by the relative costs of completing illegal transactions within the market [19, p. 28]. Similar to the prominent drugs-trade on anonymous online markets, we expect two type of commodities on these markets: business-to-business (B2B), e.g., wholesale quantities of credit card details, and business-toconsumer (B2C), e.g., a handful of Netflix accounts. This provides us with a framework against which to evaluate where commodities are available to meet this demand and where they are not -as measured through listings on anonymous marketplaces. Second, extortion schemes, for instance ransomware or fake anti-virus [17] have a value chain that consists of four distinctive resources: a) development of malware b) distribution, by either exploits or (spear)phishing emails, c) take-over and "customer service" and d) cashout [30,42]. Fourth, the criminal business model in social engineering scams, such as tech support scams [35], or oneclick fraud [16] leans on: a) (optional) development of malware or a malicious app, b) distribution by phishing e-mail or website, or through social engineering, c) take-over and setting-up "customer service," and d) cashout [35,42]. Fifth, cybercriminal fraud schemes, e.g. those enabled by financial malware, build on four general, main resources: a) development and b) distribution of malware or a malicious app, c) take-over, for instance by using web-injects or a RAT, 1 and d) cash-out [42,44]. Sixth, cryptocurrency mining relies on near-similar resources as click fraud: a) the development of malware or JavaScript, b) distribution of malware by botnets or the injection of a JavaScript in a compromised websites, c) the take-over, i.e. mining, and d) cash-out [27,42]. Seventh, the criminal business model that profits from selling stolen credit card details makes use of: a) development of a phishing website, malware or a malicious apps, b) distribution, c) take-over, i.e. the logging of information, and d) reselling and cashing-out [23,42]. Our measurement methodology consists of 1) collecting and parsing data on listings, prices and buyer feedback from eight prominent online anonymous markets, 2) implementing and applying a classifier to the listings to map them to cybercrime components from our conceptual model of value chains (Figure 2) as well as to additional categories of B2C cybercrime, and 3) using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA, [10]) to identify the best-selling clusters of listings and compare their offerings to the capabilities, resources and services needed for each component of the conceptual model. We first leveraged the parsed and analyzed dataset of Soska and Christin [40] to obtain information about item listings and reviews on several prominent online anonymous marketplaces. Each piece of feedback contains a message, a numerical score, and a timestamp.We then extended this data with an additional 16 complete snapshots of AlphaBay that we collected from May 30, 2016to May 26, 2017, just two months before its closure in July 2017 [4]. Unfortunately, the labels provided by Soska and Christin are not expressive enough to capture these nuanced categories, so we begin by using their labels as a pre-filter and retain only item listings that were identified as being either "Digital goods" or "Miscellaneous" (19% of all listings). Next, we implemented a Linear Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. The classifier is initially trained and evaluated on a sample of listings (n = 1, 500) from all the markets, where ground truth is created via manual labeling. For labeling the ground truth, we randomly selected 1, 500 items from all listings classified as either "Digital Goods" or "Miscellaneous" (n = 44, 060), or approximately 3.5% of the data. Fourth and last, we observed custom listings, i.e., listings that are specifically created to be sold only once to one specific buyer. Because of the highly skewed distribution of listings in our random sample, we were forced to increase our ground truth by manually adding listings to the following categories: app, botnet, e-mail, exploit, hosting, malware, phone, RAT and website. Before training the classifier, we excluded three categories of cybercrime components from the classification: JavaScript malware, webinjects, and customer support. We tokenized each item (assuming all items are in English) and computed a tf-idf (term frequency inverse document frequency) value for each of the resulting 9, 629 unique tokens or words. We mitigate the negative impact of this imbalance on our classification results by re-sampling our ground truth listings by the SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique) method, thereby increasing the cardinality of each category to match the size of the largest labels; this is a standard technique towards improving algorithmic fairness. Because of the nature of listings that cover multiple categories, e.g. bundled goods, we anticipate some classification errors. To get an idea of how frequently this happens, we looked into items priced above $5,000. To find additional misclassified drug listings, we leveraged the distinctive features of drug listings, namely the unique terminology used to list the quantity of drugs offered, e.g., "grams," "mg," "ug," "lbs," "ml," "pills," etc. Although some of these listings are in fact B2B cybercrime services, they are not fully commoditized, as the listing reflects a one-time sale and a nonstandardized product or item.There are large differences across the categories of B2B offerings. This is a consequence of the generally low-value exploit listed in anonymous marketplaces, e.g., run-of-the-mill Office exploit macros. Curiously, the median lifespan of cash-out listings is above average, which could be due to vendors updating the specific product listed, or persistently selling unusable credit card details, or to a slower-than-expected detection of suspicious transactions by credit card companies.Looking into median lifespan of listings reveals little differences as all but three categories have a median listing lifespan of close to one month. Both exploit and hosting listings have a low median lifespan of around 0.3 months -approximately 10 days. The number of feedback is a proxy for the minimum number of sales, as a buyer can only leave feedback Figure 4 shows a growth in listings, amount of feedback and revenue for cybercrime components between 2012 and 2017. The drop at the end of 2013 and the beginning of 2014 is partly due to the take-down of Silk Road 1 and Black Market Reloaded. The steep increase thereafter is distributed over four new markets (Agora, Evolution, Hydra and Silk Road 2), but shows that the aggregate pattern is clearly one of rapid growth. The next drop, around the end of 2014, is caused by a combination of the law-enforcement operation against Silk Road 2, the exit scam of Evolution and the sudden disappearance of Agora. From the beginning of 2015 onwards we see a steady growth in revenue alongside the growth of AlphaBay market as a whole. Similarly, we see a spike in botnet-related sales driven by a mysterious listing titled "source," receiving 10 -rather negative -feedbacks in the summer of 2014 As with the revenue per listing, the number of unique vendors per category is generally increasing over time, however the increase in vendors is steeper than the increase in listings. Figure 10 plots the cumulative percentage of listings and revenue of cybercrime components over vendors. The 174 vendors range from a minimum revenue of $7,355 to a maximum of $1,148,403. All except two markets, namely Hydra and Pandora, contain listings in each of the categories. Hydra and Pandora are relatively small markets, with a shorter life-span and the absence of listings in some categories is probably due their comparatively modest size and short existence. This covers the categories of "accounts," "fake," "guide," "pirated," and "voucher." Indeed, these B2C products are meant to be used or consummed by the buyer, and are not parts for some large value chain with another profit center at the end of it.The large portion of retail cybercrime is in line with what has been observed on the drugs side of these markets; B2C transactions for consumers of drugs, along with more modest amounts of B2B transactions with larger quantities for lower-level dealers [8]. To do so, we next cluster listings within cybercrime component categories and characterize the supply by analyzing the best-selling clusters within each category. We now want to delve deeper into what is actually being offered in each category and how this supply compares to the overall demand for criminal capability, resources and services in that category. We cleaned the data (removing broken fragments and correcting egregious errors) and lemmatized the words before clustering.Our goal is to extract and analyze the three clusters which represent the "main themes" in each category. The categories "botnet," "website," and "RAT" show lower revenue numbers. Upon manual inspection, we could identify a very small cluster with only a few feedback that was dominated by a few very expensive items.The second part of this clustering approach aims to understanding which type of products and/or services are transacted in these main clusters. Exploit.Within the exploit category, the two main themes are 1) Microsoft Office exploits, e.g., malicious macros, and 2) browser exploits. The prominent "hosting" clusters include hosting through VPS or CPanel-listings. Phone. In the category of phone listings, one prominent cluster comprises listings on bypassing security features on phones. We however note that selling a guide is not the same as outsourcing a cybercrime component.In summary, the demand for cybercrime components is frequently met on online anonymous markets in our dataset, but the supply is highly restricted to specific niches and the accompanied revenue is generally modest. Next, we see a cluster of listings selling Netflix and Spotify accounts, in quantities between two and ten per listing. However, the online anonymous marketplace ecosystem has grown quite significantly since then -in particular, in 2017, AlphaBay itself grossed, on a daily basis, more than the entire online anonymous marketplae ecosystem did in 2014. "The estimates coming from our scrapes yield US $222,932,839 (and 2,223,992 transactions) for the entire time interval (including, this time, all of the goods sold on the marketplace). Because we cannot determine which cards are purchased, we simply conservatively ignore such sales.More importantly, as Soska and Christin point out, it is important to repeatedly scrape online anonymous marketplaces to ensure adequate coverage [40]. This might mean that cybercriminals turn to other platforms with less safeguards to trade commoditized cybercrime. Even when criminals do follow TCE, some forms of commoditized cybercrime do not fit well with online anonymous markets: subscription models, affiliate programs, services requiring a rich search interface, or non-English offerings [26,48] are all ill-suited to the type of markets we are investigating here. Building on the work of Thomas et. After the infamous Silk Road market came into existence, researchers looked closer at online anonymous markets [8,15] and investigated the evolution of listings and revenue on these markets. Furthermore, researchers investigated the increase in online drugs trade, specifically the B2B side of Silk Road 1 drugs offerings, and what factors determine vendor success [8]. Van Buskirk et al. [43] specifically focused on the motivation of drug buyers in Australia to turn to online anonymous markets instead of street dealers. In three of them ("javascript," "customer service," and "web inject"), we found no offerings in the large random sample for the ground truth, not even when we searched the whole data with specific keywords. Between 2011 and 2017 the revenue of B2C cybercrime was around US $7 million, where B2B cybercrime generated US $8 million in revenue.In conclusion, we find that, at least on online anonymous marketplaces, commoditization is a spottier phenomenon than was previously assumed. The services that are highly commoditized, like booters, seem to draw in mostly B2C activities -i.e., consumers going after other consumers, as was the dominant finding in a victimization study of commoditized DDoS [37]. Earlier work on interventions that target choke points shows that they can have measurable impact, not via a wholesale shutdown of the business model, but by raising transaction costs [12,29]. Kyle Soska and Nicolas Christin's contributions were partially sponsored by DHS Office of Science and Technology under agreement number FA8750-17-2-0188. Prominent clusters of the App category include offers for Android loggers, i.e., malicious keylogger apps, Android bank apps, i.e., malicious banking apps, and Dendroid, a RAT for Android. We also identified offers on C&C servers and In this section we present the best-selling clusters in the other categories of B2B cybercrime components.App.