In a 425-participant online user study, we find stark differences in participants' desired access-control policies for different capabilities within a single device, as well as based on who is trying to use that capability. Recent years have seen a proliferation of Internet of Things (IoT) devices intended for consumers' homes, including Samsung SmartThings [35], the Amazon Echo voice assistant [2], the Nest Thermostat [48], Belkin's Wemo devices [5], and Philips Hue lights [32]. To date, IoT security and privacy research has focused on such devices' insecure software-engineering practices [3,13,15], improper information flows [15,40,45], and the inherent difficulties of patching networked devices [49,51]. First, numerous users interact with a single home IoT device, such as a household's shared voice assistant or Internet-connected door lock. While these examples were relatively harmless, one could imagine a rogue child remotely controlling the devices in a sibling's room to annoy them, a curious babysitter with temporary access to a home perusing a device's history of interactions, or an enterprising burglar asking a voice assistant through a cracked window to unlock the front door [42]. We move to a capabilitycentric model, where we define a capability as a particular action (e. g., ordering an item online) that can be performed on a particular device (e. g., a voice assistant). For household members of six different relationships (e. g., spouse, child, babysitter), the participant specified when that person should be allowed to use that capability. In our study, nearly all participants always wanted their spouses to be able to use capabilities other than log deletion at all times. Children might be permitted to control lights, but perhaps not to turn the lights on and off hundreds of times in succession as children are wont to do. A babysitter unlocking the door from inside the house has far fewer security implications than the babysitter setting a persistent rule to unlock the front door whenever anyone rings the doorbell.RQ3: On what contextual factors (e. g., location) do access-control policies depend? Our contributions include:(i) Proposing access-control specification for the multi-user home IoT based on capabilities that better fits users' expectations than current approaches. The former class includes those who exploit software vulnerabilities in platforms [13], devices [3] (e. g., with Mirai), or protocols [16] intending to cause physical, financial, or privacy-related damage. Insiders might be motivated to subvert a smart-home system's access controls for reasons ranging from curiosity to willful disobedience (e.g., a child attempting to take actions forbidden by their parents), or to attempt to correct imbalances created by the introduction of devices whose surveillance implications grant asymmetric power to certain members of a household (e. g., a parent tracking a teenager [44]). For example, a maintenance worker may unlock the front door using a smartphone app, while a child might turn off their lights by speaking to a voice assistant. The Kwikset Kevo Smart Lock allows access-control rules to be time-based; an owner can grant access to a secondary user for a limited amount of time. We find that restricting users, not just apps, access to a particular capability is necessary.From this analysis, we found current mechanisms to be rudimentary and lack the necessary vocabulary for specifying access-control rules in complex, multi-user environments. Current research focuses on analyzing and fixing the security of platforms [13,14,45], protocols [16], and devices [3]. Fernandes et al. discuss how smart-home apps can be overprivileged in terms of their access to devices and present attacks exploiting deficiencies in apps' access-control mechanisms [13]. For instance, researchers have noted that roommates [26], guests [23], neighbors [7], and children [8,38] are all important considerations in multi-user environments. We build on this work, identifying desired access-control rules for home IoT devices and bringing both relationships between home occupants and devices' individual capabilities to the forefront.Prior research on IoT authentication has focused on protocols (e.g., Kerberos-like frameworks [1,27]) without considering the constraints of users. To ground our investigation of capabilities of the home IoT in devices consumers would likely encounter, we created a list of home IoT devices (Appendix A) from consumer recommendations in CNET, PCMag, and Tom's Guide [33]. We used this process to identify a comprehensive, yet diverse, set of capabilities that range from those that elicit substantial concerns to those that elicit none.To identify a small set of relationships to investigate in the main study, we also showed participants a table of 24 relationships (e. g., teenage child, home health aide) and asked them to group these relationships into five ordered levels of desired access to smart-home devices. We selected the 22 capabilities whose pre-study results showed a spectrum of opinions and concerns while maintaining a feature-set representative of smart homes.To narrow our initial list of 24 relationships to a tractable number, we examined how pre-study participants assigned each relationship to one of the five ordered categories of desired access to household devices. Appendix B gives the full list of capabilities and the descriptions participants saw.We then presented the participant with one of six relationships: spouse; teenage child; child in elementary school; visiting family member; babysitter; neighbor. To better understand the importance of an authentication method correctly identifying the person in question and the system correctly enforcing the access-control policy, we asked participants who answered "always" or "never" to state how much of an inconvenience it would be if the system incorrectly denied or allowed (respectively) that particular user access to that capability. We asked about the following factors: the time of day; the location of the person relative to the device (e.g., in the same room); the age of the person; who else is currently at home; the cost of performing that action (e.g., cost of electricity or other monetary costs); the current state of the device; the location of the device in the home; the person's recent usage of the device. We compensated participants $ 3.50 for the study, which took approximately 20 minutes and was IRB-approved. Participants' responses about their access-control preferences included both qualitative free-text responses and multiple-choice responses. Next, we present how desired access-control policies differ across capabilities (RQ1, Section 6.2) and the degree to which desired policies differ across relationships (RQ1, Section 6.3). Next, we evaluate which contextual factors (e. g., age, location, usage) influence the "sometimes" cases the most, thus explaining users' reasoning for not always allowing access to a capability (RQ3, Section 6.5). Some participants (19 %) reported majoring, earning a degree, or holding a job in computer science or a related field.The majority of our participants (67 %) live in a singlefamily home, while 25 % live in an apartment. Around 20 % of participants reported living in a single-person household, 27 % in a two-person, 23 % in a three-person, and 17 % in a four-person household. However, participants were much more willing to let others play music (32.5 % of participants choose never averaged across the six relationships, σ = 0.33, median = 23.7 %) than order things online (59.7 % choose never on average, σ = 0.40, median = 71.1 %) (FET, p < .05 for the teenager, child, and visiting family member relationships). Another example of differing opinions across capabilities within a single device include deleting an IoT lock's activity logs and answering the door, viewing the current state of the lock, and setting rules for the lock. Even if individuals with relationships like neighbor or babysitter do not live in the same house, permissions are sometimes given when the owner of the house is not around. At the same time, an average of 25.6 % of participants across relationships chose never (σ = 0.33, median = 16.7 %). We introduced participants to a list of relationships (e.g., neighbor) and asked them to choose whether someone of that relationship should be permitted to "always," "sometimes," or "never" control a capability (e.g., adjust the camera angle) in their smart home.relationships share some trust with the homeowner, while neither lives in the same household.In general, policies toward a visiting family member are slightly more permissive than policies toward a babysitter. 57.1 % of participants decided that a visiting family member would never have access to this feature, while only 33.3 % of participants decided the same for a babysitter. Though both children and teenagers are under a parent or guardian's watch, a teenager (presented as 16 years old) and a child (presented as 8 years old) were given very different access scopes. Therefore, the always permission was chosen often, and no need for supervision was mentioned in their free-text responses.Meanwhile, granting an 8-year-old child unencumbered access worried participants much more. Though only 5.3 % of participants agreed to give full access to "Order Online" to a teenager, 73.7 % chose sometimes over never, giving limited access to their teenager to buy things they needed on Amazon. Averaged across all capabilities, only 18.1 % of participants (σ = 0.12, median = 13.2 %) chose always for visiting family members, 10.3 % for babysitters (σ = 0.09, median = 7.9 %), 8.3 % for children (σ = 0.10, median = 5.6 %) and 0.7 % for neighbors (σ = 0.03, median = 0 %). Averaged across all capabilities, 93.5 % of participants (σ = 0.09, median = 95.3 %) agreed to always give access to their spouse, while only 4.15 % (σ = 0.05, median = 0 %) answered sometimes, and 2.35 % (σ = 0.06, median = 0 %) said never. A) Lock Log Sensitivity As mentioned in Section 6.2, "Delete Lock Log" is the capability least frequently permitted, and access should therefore be denied by default. On average across all capabilities, 69.4 % of participants chose never for the child (σ = 0.19, median = 70.6 %). For only the "Light State" and "Play Music" capabilities was never chosen by fewer than half of participants. C) Ordering Online The capability to make an online purchase was generally limited to spouses only; 78.9 % of participants said that only their spouse should always be allowed to make online purchases, but 84.2 % also said that it was acceptable for non-spouse users to do the same if given explicit permission by the homeowner. While we did not observe significant differences for the "People Nearby", "Cost" and "Usage History" contextual factors across capabilities, we did observe significant differences for the other five contextual factors.A) Age The age of the user was the most influential factor on average across the eight capabilities (78.1 % on average, σ = 0.13, median = 78.3 %), and the proportion of participants for whom age mattered varied across capabilities (p = 0.040). B) Location of Device The proportion of participants for whom the device's location impacted the access-control policy varied across capabilities (p < 0.001). Device location was the second most frequently invoked factor for turning a camera on or off (60 %) and watching live video (81 %). Therefore, when designing a smart camera, whether the camera will be used indoors or outdoors should be considered and reflected in default accesscontrol policies. On average across capabilities, 51.7 % of participants (σ = 0.12, median = 52.6 %) agreed that this factor impacted their decision about the access-control policy. Second, if the capability itself is so concerning that participants are reluctant to give others access (e.g., "Delete Video"), usage history did not play a role. "Play music" (68.4 %) and lawnmower-related capabilities (64.7 % for creating rules for the mower, 68.2 % for turning lawn mower on/off remotely) were particularly sensitive to the time of the day. For example, creating rules that control the lights (68.4 % of participants felt the user's location mattered) and "Facial Recognition" (66.7 %) were prime examples. G) People Nearby 43.6% of participants (σ = 0.09, median = 43.6 %) indicated that who else is nearby might impact their accesscontrol decision. H) State of Device The current state of device was overall the least important factor in participants' access-control decisions on average (mean = 23.7 %, σ = 0.11, median = 22.3 %), though this importance did differ across capabilities (p = 0.044). Notably, 46.7 % of participants who answered about the "Facial Recognition" the capability marked the state of the device as an influential factor. A) Neighbor false allows a major inconvenience Across all capabilities, 64.1 % of the participants stated that it is a major inconvenience if the authorization system gives access to their neighbor by accident. Turning the security camera on or off (100 % a major inconvenience) and creating rules for a smart lock (92.9 % a major inconvenience and 7.1 % a minor inconvenience) are the most concerning capabilities. 50 % of the answers are based on deleting log files from a smart lock. C) Visiting family false allows a minor issue Though we presented earlier that participants' permissiveness toward a visiting family member and a babysitter was very similar (and tended toward not being permissive), we observed a distinction when it comes to false allows. D) Shopping / lawn mowers forbidden for children Among all capabilities, incorrectly allowing a young child to order online (79 % a major inconvenience) and create rules for the lawn mower (70.6 %) were the two capabilities where false allows for a child raised great concern. Figure 4 (bottom) visualizes the full results.A) Participants Did Not Want to be Locked Out Lock-related capabilities raised the most concern (63.9 % of responses for "Lock State" and 58.8 % for "Lock Rule" found falsely denying access major inconveniences). B) Spouses and Trust Issues One common reason why participants gave full access to their spouse is because they believe two people in a marriage should be equal, which means two parties should have the same access to a system. Consequence of Falsely Denying Access to a Capability Figure 4: Perceived consequences of incorrectly allowing someone to use a capability when they should never be permitted to do so (top) or incorrectly denying someone when they should always be permitted to do so (bottom). Although some of these distinctions are intuitive (e. g., child vs. teenager), others are more nuanced and surpris-ing (e. g., babysitter vs. visiting family member). Though IoT lights can be remotely actuated, the relation between proximity and using a light is not broken. Some contextual factors, such as age, are currently present in smartphones and cloud services (e. g., Apple's iCloud Family Sharing supports adding a child Apple ID that requires parental approval for purchases, while Netflix has kids option). We recommend that for home IoT settings, these contextual factors should be a first-order primitive.Based on these findings (RQ1-3), we envision several changes to smart-home setup. From our study, these types should nonexhaustively include: Spouse, Teenager, Child, Babysitter, and Neighbor. Spouses tend to be users with the highest levels of access, generally equivalent to administrators in traditional computing systems. The 'Device Location' contextual factor is crucial for camera-related capabilities, but not so important for the capability of adding a new user. As each user will perform a gesture differently, it can also serve as a form of authentication and thus be used to identify a person and their relationship. From a false positive/negative perspective, biometrics require quite a bit of tuning that can affect an owner's choice of using this method, especially when authenticating high-access spouses or for operating dangerous equipment like lawn mowers.Voice assistants are increasingly ubiquitous in homes. Audio authentication also introduces privacy issues, as well as the potential for eavesdropping and replay attacks.Advances in computer vision can also be leveraged to identify users, their relationship, and their location within a home with cameras. Bilateral or continuous authentication mechanisms embody the idea that a user has to be: (a) physically present, and (b) currently using the device [20,28]. This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation • Software Update: Install a software update to get the latest features, improvements, and security updates. • Play Music: Play music (e. g., from Spotify) in the house. • Mower On/Off: Turn the lawn mower on or off remotely (i. e., on a smartphone, from anywhere). • Answer Door: Answer the doorbell by seeing a live video of who is at the front door and having the opportunity to unlock the door remotely (e. g., on a smartphone, from anywhere). • Lights Rule: Create rules that specify when the lights should turn on/off or change color based on other sensors, devices, and services. • Live Video: See live video from each camera in or around the house. • Delete Video: Delete one or more previously recorded videos. • Camera On/Off: Turn the camera on/off remotely (e. g., on a smartphone, from anywhere). They usually are wellbehaved, but they are still a teenager. • A visiting family member: Imagine you have a visiting family member. • Your neighbor: Imagine you have a neighbor living next to you.You dont know them very well, but they seem to be good people. Introduction Computing is transitioning from single-user devices, such as laptops and phones, to the Internet of Things, in which many users will interact with a particular device, such as an Amazon Echo or Internet-connected door lock. Our goal is to develop techniques and interfaces that enable accurate access control and authentication in multi-user IoT environments, based on user preferences.Participation should take about 20 minutes.In recent years, many internet-connected ("smart") home devices and appliances have entered the market. The next button will not appear until you have spent at least 30 seconds on each page.In this survey, we will ask whether you will allow people of the following relationships to control a particular feature of a smart device: your spouse; your teenage child; your child in elementary school; a visiting family member; a babysitter; your neighbor. You specify that certain people can access the following feature only sometimes: [capability] Might the location of the person relative to the device (e. g., in the same room, not in the house, etc.) affect your decision on whether certain people can or cannot use this particular feature? Yes No Not applicableBriefly explain your response.Might the current state of the device (e. g., whether it is on or off) affect your decision on whether certain people can or cannot use this particular feature?