By combining qualitative data on users' password creation and management strategies, collected from 476 participants of an online survey, with quantitative data (incl. password metrics and entry methods) collected in situ with a browser plugin from 170 users, we were able to gain a more complete picture of the factors that influence our participants' password strength and reuse. For several decades passwords prevail as the default authentication scheme for virtually all online services [44,11,30]. For instance, various attacks exploit that humans fail to create strong passwords themselves [10,19,45,31,34]. Password managers are being recommended as a solution because they fulfill important usability and security aspects at the same time: They store all the users' passwords so the users do not have to memorize them; they can also help users entering their passwords by automatically filling them into log-in forms; and they can also offer help in creating unique, random passwords. To break this question down, we are interested in 1) whether password managers actually store strong passwords that are likely auto-generated by, for instance, password generators, or if they really are just storage where users save their self-made, likely weak passwords? However, to better distinguish the storage option of a password (i.e., memorized and manually entered, auto-filled by the browser, copy&pasted, or filled by a browser plugin) a more finegrained entry method detection is required. To better study password managers' influence, one has to take the users' creation and storage strategies into consideration as well.In particular, one has to understand if the user pursues primarily a creation strategy based on password manager support and whether there then exists an observable effect of this strategy on the password strength and reuse.In this paper, we present a study that reflects those considerations (see the bottom of Figure 1). We were further able to recruit 170 of our participants, 49 of which reported using password managers, for a follow-up study in which our participants allowed us to monitor their passwords through a Google Chrome browser plugin that collected password metrics as well as answers to in situ questionnaires upon password entry. This gave us detailed information about real-life passwords, including their strength, their reuse, and, for the first time, their entry method (e.g., manually typed, auto-filled, pasted, or entered by a browser plugin) as well as the passwords' context, including user reported value of the password (e.g., loss of social repudiation or financial harm when the password would be leaked). However, it is important that the entire password management process is supported-from generation, over storage, to entry-and not only the old and weak passwords of the users are stored. Given the permanence of passwords, users are commonly referred to technical help in form of password management software [28,59,53,56] to create strong, unique passwords.In this paper, we aim to better understand how password managers help users in this task and try to measure the impact password managers actually have on the current status quo. For example, password policies that enforce a certain password composition (i.e., length and character classes) can influence the user [70,26,38]. Similarly, many websites use password strength meters to provide real-time feedback on new password's strength and nudge users into creating stronger passwords [23,61]. However, more recent research [67,10,18,40] argued that guessability metrics are a more realistic metric than the commonly used entropy metrics, and recommendations, such as NIST [28], recently picked up the results of this line of research and have been updated accordingly. Since prior password strength meters were based on the password composition and the resulting entropy, those new approaches also found their way into contending password strength meters [68,45,60]. For instance, in a combination of measurement study of real leaked passwords and user survey [16], 43% of the participants reused passwords and often a new password was merely a small modification of an existing one. Both studies monitored websites for password entries and recorded the password characteristics, such as length and composition, a participant-specific password hash, the web domain (or domain category), as well as meta-information including installed browser plugins or installed software (e.g., anti-virus software). For our work, we derived a more fine-grained detection of the password entry method, which allows us to distinguish human, pluginbased, auto-fill, or copy&pasted input to password fields and thus better detection of managed passwords. To study the impact of password managers, a broader view is essential that includes the users' password creation strategies in addition to their in situ behavior. We collected the data in two different stages: 1) a survey sampling, and 2) collection of in situ password metrics.Ethical concerns: The protocols implemented in those two stages were approved by the ethical review board 1 of our university. In our survey sampling, we asked participants about their general privacy attitude, their attitude towards passwords, their skills and strategies for creating and managing passwords, as well as basic demographic questions. The researchers achieved an initial agreement between 95.6% (Q9) and 97.1% (Q22) and all differences could be resolved in agreement.Participation in the survey was open to any MTurk worker that fulfilled the following criteria: the worker was located in the US and the number of previously approved tasks was at least 100 or at least 70% all of the tasks. In total, 505 MTurk workers participated in our survey between August 1 https://erb.cs.uni-saarland.de/ 2 Other instruments, which meet the latest requirements of scale constructions and which are often used in recent research, do not reflect the actual privacy/security attitude construct, but refer more strongly to security behavior (e.g., SeBIS [22]) or are strongly tailored to the corporate context (e.g., HAIS-Q [50]).2017 and October 2017. To collect in situ data about passwords, including strength, reuse, entry method, and domain, we created a Chrome browser plugin that monitors the input to password fields of loaded websites and then sends all collected metrics back to our server once the user logs in to the website. Our primary selection criterion for participant selection was that they use Chrome as their primary browser and are not using exclusively mobile devices (smartphones and tablets) to browse the web; besides that we aimed for an unbiased sampling from the participants pool with respect to the participants' privacy attitude, attitude towards passwords, demographics, and usage of password managers. 3 Zxcvbn estimates every password's strength on a scale from 0 (weakest) to 4 (strongest) using pattern matching (e.g., repeats, sequences, keyboard patterns), common password dictionaries (including leaked passwords, names, English dictionary words), and mangling rules (e.g., leetify). 4 Entry method: The method through which the password was entered, such as human, Chrome auto-fill, copy&paste, 3rd party password manager plugin, or external password manager program. Other studies used the website category as a proxy for this value [51] and in our study we wanted first-hand knowledge (see also Appendix C). If our plugin detects any kind of typing inside the password field ((A)=Y) and the typing speed is too fast to come from a human typist ((B)=N), we conclude that an external password manager program (such as KeePass) mimics a human typist by "replaying" the keyboard inputs of the password. If no paste event was detected ((C)=N) and the Chrome auto-fill event was observed, this indicates that Chrome filled the password field from its built-in password manager. If Chrome auto-fill has not filled the password field ((D)=N), our plugin checks the list of installed plugins for eight well-known password manager plugins (see Appendix D) and reports the ones installed in the participant's browser, or an "unknown" value in case none of those eight was found.We make the assumption that the user does not enter the password with a mixture of the different entry methods (e.g., pasting a word and complementing it with typing). For every newly detected domain to which a password was submitted, our plugin asked the participant to answer a short three question questionnaire about the participants' estimate of the website's value, the participants' strength estimate of the just entered password, and whether the login was successful (see Figure 3). Due to the lack of in-person interviews or consultation between the researchers and the participants, we tried to address those concerns through a high level of transparency, support, and collecting only the minimal amount of data in a privacy-protecting fashion, which also follows the guidelines for academic requesters [20]. Second, we distributed our plugin in an authenticated way via the Google Web Store and did not obfuscate the plugin's code. After presenting our participants' demographics and an overview of their password reuse and strength, we group our participants based on their creation strategy and study the impact of different password management and creation strategies. Also, our participants covered an age range from 18 to more than 70 years, where our sample skews to younger participants (75.2% of our study participants are younger than 40) as can be commonly observed in behavioral research, including password studies and usable security. The participants also covered a range of educational levels, where a Bachelor's degree was the most common degree (36.6% of all participants). Tables 4 and 5 provide summary statistics of all passwords collected by our plugin. Our participants reported using on average 29.95 password-secured accounts (Q2 in Appendix A) and we collected on average 61% of each participant's self-estimated number 5 of passwords. The average zxcvbn score was 2.20, where the participant with the weakest passwords had an average of 0.67 and the participant with the strongest an average of 4.00. With respect to general password reuse (see Figure 4), partial-and-exact reuse is by far the most common reuse across all entry methods, except for LastPass' plugin and Copy&paste, which have a noticeably high fraction of non-reused passwords (e.g., 68 or 53% of all passwords entered with LastPass were not reused) and have noticeably less password reuse than the overall average. Based on their answers, we discovered a dichotomous grouping:Group 1: Password managers/generators ("PWM"): First, we identified participants that reported using a password generator, either as integrated part of a password manager program (e.g., "I use lastpass.com, which automatically creates and saves very strong passwords.") Many also implied the usage of a manager for password storage (e.g., "I use a password creation and storage-related browser extension that also is related to an installed password manager application on my personal computer.") In total, 45 (or 26.47%) out of 170 participants fell into this category.Group 2: Human-generated ("Human"): We discovered that all 121 remaining participants described a strategy that abstains from using technical means. I then decide to capitalize a letter in it like mOuse. Many participants also admitted re-using passwords as their strategy (e.g., "I use the same password I always use because it has served me well all these years" and "I have several go to words i use and add numbers and symbols that i can remember"). We find that they have statistically significant different distribution for gender (U = 2,366, p = .016), computer science background (U = 2,181, p < .001), and attitude towards passwords (U = 3,440, p = .024). One hypothesis for this distribution could be that computer science studies had historically more male students and that their technical background may have induced awareness of the importance of passwords as a security measure and the promised benefits of password managers. When breaking the number of passwords down by their entry method, Chrome auto-fill is the dominating entry method for all zxcvbn scores 1-4 in both groups except for score 1 in Group PWM where manually entered passwords are most frequent. Regarding password reuse (see Figure 7), the most frequent category is exactly-and-partially reused (n = 189 or 36.21% for Group PWM ; n = 555 or 44.58% for Group Human ). However, Group PWM shows a bimodal distribution in which not-reused passwords are almost as frequent (n = 187) as exactly-and-partially reused ones. This type of regression analysis takes into account the hierarchical structure of our data, where individual password entries are grouped under the corresponding user. The multi-level models with the studied factors (e.g. entry method) showed a significantly better fit to our data than models that take into account the individual differences between users but do not include the influencing factors we studied. As multi-level models are highly vulnerable to multi-collinearity, detecting and potentially removing strongly correlated variables is essential to prevent inaccurate model estimations, which could lead to false positive results. For both password reuse and strength prediction, we started with a base model without any explanatory variables, which we iteratively extended with additional predictors. The interactions between the self-reported creation strategy (q9:generator; see Q9 in Appendix A) and the de-tected entry methods Chrome auto-fill, copy&paste, and LastPass were significant predictors in our model. In contrast to human entry the odds for reuse were 2.85 time lower if the password was entered with LastPass (odds ratio 0.35, predicted probability of reuse with Lastpass = 48.35%) and even 14.29 times lower if entered via copy&paste (odds ratio 0.07, predicted probability of reuse with copy&paste = 19.81%). For users who use technical tools to create their passwords (q9:generator), the chances that the passwords are not reused are 3.70 times higher (odds ratio 0.27, predicted probability of reuse if technical tools are used = 47.36%). Lastly, users that reported using an analog password storage (q14:analog; see Q14 in Appendix A) were less likely to reuse their passwords (odds ratio of 0.62). In general, our participants showed very similar password strength and reuse characteristics as in prior studies [51,66] and our analysis could also reaffirm prior results, such as rampant password reuse.Our study adds novel insights to the existing literature by considering the exact password entry methods and by painting a more complete picture by considering the users' password creation strategies. Participants indicated using a password generator right now or in the recent past, or clearly described mental algorithms and similar methods for human-generated passwords. Taking a differentiated view based on the creation strategies, we find that users of a password generator are closer to a desirable situation with stronger, less reused passwords, although being far from ideal. Future work could investigate and compare Apple's walled-garden ecosystem, where the Safari browser has this feature enabled by default. This is in contradiction to prior results of lab studies, like [62], and we think it is worth investigating why users in the wild are so much better at judging their own password strength.Our models further suggest, that the use of password generators and the website value also significantly reduced the chance of password reuse. In the future, the influence of services like Have I Been Pwned 6 , which are increasingly integrated into password creation forms and managers, onto the users' understanding of uniqueness and password reuse could be studied.Another interesting question that comes from our study is why users of password managers (Group PWM ) still reuse passwords and employ weak passwords. Unfortunately, there were too few copy&paste users in our current dataset to make any further reliable statements about them separately.In summary, password managers indeed provide benefits to the users' password strength and uniqueness. We targeted Google Chrome users, which had in general [6] the highest market share, also among our survey participants. Further, we recruited only experienced US workers on Amazon MTurk, which might not be representative for any population or other cultures (external validity), however, our demographics and password statistics show alignment with prior studies. By combining insights into users' password storage and creation strategies within situ collected password metrics, we create a more complete view of passwords. The results in Ta- ble 9 show that each score has a corresponding cutoff for guesses, e.g., score 2 requires between 10 3 -10 6 guesses. Table 9: Zxcvbn scores and estimated no. Chrome plugins are identified through a 32 characters long UUID that can be retrieved from Google's Chrome Web Store. a1: Consumer have lost all control over how personal information is collected and used by companies.