Prepositions and postpositions (collectively adpositions) are widespread in the world's languages as grammatical markers expressing spatial, temporal, thematic, 1 and other kinds of semantic relations. A line of previous work (Srikumar and Roth, 2013a;Schneider et al., 2015Schneider et al., , 2016, see §2) has developed a scheme for broad-coverage annotation 1 In the sense of thematic roles (agent, patient, etc.). They envision disambiguation as assigning a single one of these supersenses to each preposition token.While formalizing disambiguation via singlelabel classification works well for prototypical members of the categories, on closer examination, we argue that it is overly simplistic for many usages. §5 surveys some of the phenomena that our new analysis addresses with examples from multiple languages; §6 suggests that this added flexibility at the token level removes the need for a great deal of complexity in the supersense inventory itself: i.e., we can get away with Figure 1: Preposition supersense hierarchy (from Schneider et al., 2016). The Preposition Project (TPP; Litkowski and Hargraves, 2005) broke ground in stimulating computational work on fine-grained word sense disambiguation of English prepositions ( Litkowski and Hargraves, 2005;Ye and Baldwin, 2007;Tratz and Hovy, 2009;Dahlmeier et al., 2009). Following Srikumar and Roth (2013b), Schneider et al. (2015) developed coarse-grained semantic categories of prepositions as a broader-coverage alternative to finegrained senses, using categories similar to those appearing in semantic maps (LOCATION, RECIPIENT, etc.) rather than lexicalized senses. There are multiple English prepositions per supersense; e.g., "in the city" and "on the table" would join "at 123 Main St." in being labeled as LOCATIONs. for PURPOSE and EXPLANATION) to help determine which tokens are instances of the category.The 75 supersenses are organized in a taxonomy based on that of VerbNet ( Bonial et al., 2011), with PARTICIPANT, CIRCUMSTANCE, and CONFIGU-RATION at the top level. The supersenses were applied to annotate a 55,000 word corpus of online reviews in English, covering all 4,250 preposition tokens ( Schneider et al., 2016). For example, it was observed that TOPIC and STIMULUS could compete for semantic territory. This contrasts with the use of for in "I cared for my grandmother," where the prepositional choice calls attention to the benefactive aspect of the caring act.If we are constrained to one label per argument, where should the line be drawn between STIMU-LUS and TOPIC in cases of overlap? Observing that annotators were inconsistent on such tokens, Schneider et al. (2016) drew a boundary between TOPIC and STIMULUS in an attempt to force consistency, stating that "TOPIC should be used if the governor is a predicate of communication or of 'higher-level' cognition-i.e., primarily mental/intellectual rather than emotional/ perceptual/bodily in nature". 4 This criterion seems artificial to us; at the very least, it splits hairs in a way that would be difficult to explain to annotators.Below, we instead argue that the idea of construal/conceptualization offers a more principled answer; in our new analysis, the TOPIC suggested by about and the STIMULUS suggested by cared can coexist. (4) a. [Hindi]: EXPERIENCER vs. POSSESSOR bipaashaa kaa gussaa Bipasha GEN anger "Bipasha's anger"b.[Hindi]: EXPERIENCER bipaashaa bahut gussaa hui Bipasha very angry became "Bipasha got very angry. Here Bipasha is not construed as a possessor when the postposition kaa is not used.Our preliminary annotation of Hindi, Korean, and Hebrew has suggested that instances of overlap between multiple supersenses are fairly frequent. With "cared about the strategy," it is TOPIC-ness that the preposition brings to the table; with "anger of Bipasha," it is the conceptualization of anger as an attribute that somebody possesses.Thus, we turn to theories in Cognitive Semantics to define the phenomenon of construal as a means of understanding the contributions that are emerging from the adpositions with respect to the expressed event or situation. Much like pictures of a scene from different viewpoints will result in different renderings, a real-world situation being described will "look" different depending on the linguistic choices made by a speaker. In the process called construal (a.k.a. conceptualization), a speaker "packages" ideas for linguistic expression in a way that foregrounds certain elements of a situation while backgrounding others.We propose to incorporate this notion of construal in adposition supersense annotation. Rather than trying to ignore these construals to favor a single-label approach, or possibly create new labels to capture the meaning distinctions that construals impose on semantic roles, we adopt an approach that gives us the flexibility to deal with both the semantics coming from the scene and the construal evoked by the adpositional choice. Essentially, we borrow from Construction Grammar ( Fillmore et al., 1988;Kay and Fillmore, 1999;Goldberg, 2006) the notion that semantic contributions can be made at various levels of syntactic structure, beginning with the semantics contributed by the lexical items.Under the original single-label analysis, the full weight of semantic assignment rested on the predicate's semantic role, with the indirect assumption that the predicate selects for adpostions relevant to the assignment. The festival features works by Puccini.scene role: CREATOR; function: AGENT b. I'm an expert on the works of Puccini.scene role: CREATOR; function: SOURCE We recognize that both of these sentences carry the meaning represented by the supersense CREATOR at the scene level, but also recognize the construal that arises from the chosen preposition: by is assigned the function of AGENT and of is assigned the function of SOURCE. STIMULUS;CAUSER b. I was scared about getting my ears pierced.STIMULUS;TOPIC Comparing examples (7a) and (7b), we notice that there are two different types of stimuli represented in otherwise semantically parallel sentences. We specifically focus on the construal that arises from the adposition in a given sentence.The preposition by gives the impression that the stimulus is responsible for triggering an instinctive fear reflex (i.e., CAUSER), while about portrays the thing feared as the content or TOPIC of thought. 6 In some languages, the experiencer can be conceptualized as a recipient of the emotion or feeling, thus licensing dative marking. The online reviews corpus ( Schneider et al., 2016) shows that, at least in English, professional relation-6 Interestingly, "scared about" seems to require an explicit or metonymic event/situation as the complement. We do not discount the possibility that such a metaphor can be cognitively active in speakers using temporal adpositions; in fact, there is considerable evidence that time-as-space metaphors are cross-linguistically pervasive and productive (Lakoff and Johnson, 1980;Núñez and Sweetser, 2006;Casasanto and Boroditsky, 2008). The owners and employees of this store ...PROFESSIONALASPECT;POSSESSOR All of these construals are motivated in that they highlight an aspect of prototypical professional relationships: e.g., an employee's work prototypically takes place at the business location (hence "work at"), though this is not a strict condition for using "work at"-the meaning of at has been extended from the prototype. In our terms, we simply say that the scene calls for a DESTINATION, but the preposition codes for a LOCATION: The opposite problem occurs with fictive motion (Talmy, 1996): a path PP, and sometimes a motion verb, construe a static scene as dynamic as seen in "A road runs through my property." Candidates for removal include the labels with multiple inheritance such as CONTOUR (inheriting from PATH and • Items in the PARTICIPANT subhierarchy are prototypically entities functioning as arguments to an event. A significantly smaller inventory will both ease the cognitive burden on annotators and reduce the sparsity of labels in the data, which should facilitate better statistical generalizations with limited data.The added representational complexity of construals seems justified to account for many of the phenomena discussed above, especially as the project grows to include more languages. A similar phenomenon can be found in Hindi: This suggests that, apart from spatiotemporal relations and semantic roles, adpositions can mark information structural properties for which we would need a separate inventory of labels. In rare instances, we are tempted to annotate a chain of extensions from a prototypical function of a preposition, which we term multiple construal.For instance:(16) a. Bob's boss yelled at him for his mistake. As we are approaching this project with the goal of producing annotated datasets for training and evaluating natural language understanding systems, it is an important concern.We are currently planning pilot annotation studies to ascertain (i) the prevalence of the role vs. function mismatches, and (ii) annotator agreement on such instances. Enshrining role-function pairs in the lexicon may facilitate inter-annotator consistency: our experience thus far is that annotators benefit greatly from examples illustrating the possible supersenses that can be assigned to a preposition.If initial pilots are successful, we would then need to decide whether to annotate the role and function together or in separate stages. We thank the rest of our CARMLS team-Martha Palmer, Ken Litkowski, Omri Abend, Katie Conger, and Meredith Green-for participating in weekly discussions of adposition semantics; Michael Ellsworth for an insightful perspective on construal, Paul Portner for a helpful clarification regarding approaches to conceptualization in the literature, and anonymous reviewers for their thoughtful comments.