Every day, hundreds of thousands of Internet domain names are abandoned by their owners and become available for re-registration. In the case of org, over 50 % of re-registrations on the deletion day occur during only 30 s. Furthermore, drop-catch services control over 75 % of accredited domain registrars and cause more than 80 % of domain creation attempts, but represent at most 9.5 % of successful domain creations. The implications go beyond the annoyance of websites turned into "Internet graffiti" [26], as domain ownership changes have the potential to circumvent established security mechanisms. In fact, hundreds of thousands of expired domain names are deleted each day (e.g., over 75 k per day in the popular com zone alone [24]). Schlamp et al. [44] showed how such reregistrations can be used to take over protected resources associated with these domains. Nikiforakis et al. [42] discussed websites still attempting to include JavaScript code from third-party domains long after they had expired, allowing attackers to inject code into these sites. It also includes the much broader and more frequent category of undesirable behaviour akin to topics thoroughly studied by the security community, such as spam [32], search engine poisoning [49], ISPs hijacking NXDOMAIN DNS responses [50], domain parking [2,48], typosquatting [1,37,47], and reuse of social media profile names [35,36]. ICANN called this undesirable practice "a form of Inter-net graffiti" [26]; domain parking is also known to pose higher-than-average risks to visitors [48]. We show that this is a frequent phenomenon, causing a range of negative side effects as companies compete with each other while catering to the demand for expired domains.There are four distinct scenarios in which domains can change owners: When the current owner sells to a new owner while the domain registration is active; when the domain's sponsoring registrar sells the domain to a new owner while the domain registration is expired but before control of the domain is returned to the registry (pre-release); as an instant re-registration in the very moment the old registration is deleted, using a drop-catch service; or as a conventional domain registration at any later time using any domain name registrar. Pre-release and drop-catch domain ownership transfers, however, are barely mentioned in the literature, and we are not aware of any systematic measurement or quantification of these phenomena.There is an entire ecosystem of services attempting to monetise and profit from expired domains. Some registries actively discourage the practice (e.g., registrars are penalised for failed uk registration requests [8]), while others at least implicitly encourage or facilitate it (e.g., Verisign makes available to its registrars lists of com and net domains that are about to be deleted). In this paper, we conduct the first measurement study of the drop and provide as much detail as is possible from an outside vantage point. The higher prices paid for dropcatch domains suggest that their new owners consider them to be valuable; however, in our cursory analysis of domain uses, we show that most re-registered drop-catch domains contain nothing but advertisements and parking pages, suggesting monetisation through residual traffic and speculative re-registrations. Our findings raise the question of whether these uses justify the risks associated with domain ownership changes without the explicit consent of the prior registrant; they furthermore illustrate that security mechanisms must account for domain deletions and re-registrations as a frequent phenomenon (e.g., more than 20 % of all com domains are deleted each year, and out of those, 10 % are re-registered immediately by a new owner, and many more at a later time). Our work makes the following contributions:• We call attention to widespread "recycling" of used domains despite relatively high prices and measure the extent of the issue as a whole, instead of simply focussing on specific types of detected abuse. • We describe little-known ways domain ownership can change, and are the first to quantify the secretive ecosystem of drop-catch services and their daily race to take over deleted domains. Details about the activity of these registrars in each zone are available in the monthly reports that registries must file with ICANN, and that are made public after a three-month delay [24]. For the purposes of this paper, it is sufficient to know that domains not explicitly renewed or deleted before their expiration date are automatically renewed by the registry, giving the registrar a 45-day auto-renew grace period to undo this automatic renewal before becoming liable for the renewal fees. Expired domains can change owners during two points in time: Pre-release domains can be sold and transferred to a new owner during the auto-renew grace period; pending delete domains can be re-registered by a drop-catch service directly after deletion, or manually at any later point, all provided that the domain has not already changed owners beforehand. According to these sources, each day Verisign makes available to its registrars a list of all domains that just entered the pending delete period and will become available for re-registration five days later, along with popularity data derived from traffic to the zone's authoritative DNS servers. Furthermore, drop-catch services are said to use multiple (rate-limited) registrar access credentials and place their servers physically close to the registry's systems [4,8,28], similar to common practices in high frequency trading in the financial industry.In contrast to pre-release domain sales, drop-catch services do not control the domain when an order is placed and cannot guarantee that they will be able to obtain it. We will show in Section 4.6 that in a fashion similar to pre-release sales, at least one drop-catch service makes use of domain tasting to tentatively register domain names and delete them at no cost when it cannot find a buyer. Schlamp et al. [44] describe an attack to take over protected resources by re-registering the expired domains of email addresses. Although unrelated to domains, Mariconti et al. [35,36] show that similar risks of trust abuse exist on social networks that allow abandoned profile names to be reused.Two works present a more systematic examination of domain re-registrations: Hao et al. [22] investigate characteristic registration patterns of spam domains and find that among re-registered domains, those later used for spamming tend to be registered faster than non-malicious domains. In several case studies, they recount concrete security issues that arose from expired (and re-registered) domain names of name servers, email addresses, software repositories, and spam operations. We downloaded pre-release lists from four large services that sell expiring domains: Dynadot [14], GoDaddy [16], NameJet [40], and SnapNames [45]. These lists contain the names of available pre-release domains along with the date when each auction will close, and sometimes also metadata such as the current bid, the number of participants in the auction, the age of the domain, or traffic data collected by the registrar from a post-expiration parking page that can be used to valuate the domain. Once we have adjusted all lists, we observe that they agree on the same date for 99.99 % of com and net domains and around 80 % of org and biz domains, with the vast majority of disagreements involving only a one-day difference. We conducted two experiments, each designed to measure a specific aspect of domain re-registrations:• pre-release sales and drop-catch re-registrations over a four-week period in 2016, our MAIN data set, and • domain tasting in drop-catch re-registrations during one week in 2017 (TASTING). During a four-week period starting in late July 2016, each day we began tracking all com, net, org, biz and name domains appearing on the pre-release and pending delete lists mentioned above with an end date three days in the future. This first WHOIS lookup allowed us to extract domain metadata corresponding to the expiring registration, such as the original domain creation date, the expiration date, and any status flags corresponding to expiration states ( Figure 1) that may be set, such as pending delete. Overall, we tracked more than four million domains, as shown in Table 1 for pre-release, and in Table 2 for pending delete domains.Recall that pre-release domain sales take place during the auto-renew grace period so that registrars can delete the domains without incurring any cost if they do not sell. Furthermore, the authors described a growing number of domains hiding their true ownership through privacy protection services, over 20 % in 2014. We can detect a re-registration by a creation date that is on or after the "drop date" from the pending delete lists. While the high overlap among pending delete lists of competing services makes us confident that their union represents all com, net, org and biz domains that are about to be deleted, our pre-release lists do not cover the full inventory of expiring domains available for purchase due to the fragmented ecosystem. According to ICANN's registry reports, 2.2 M com domains were deleted in August 2016, which corresponds to 1.7 % of all registered com domains, as shown in Table 3. In this paper, we focus on drop-catch domains that are re-registered on day 0, that is, on the deletion day of the old registration.Some expired domains may be available even before they are deleted, and our pre-release lists (Table 1) re-registration illustrates that security mechanisms should avoid relying exclusively on creation-time features to detect potential ownership changes. Our results suggest that re-registrations are not only a common phenomenon in general, but also one driven by enough competition to cause re-registrations to happen as early as possible. NameJet and SnapNames, on the other hand, appear to be marketplaces with a number of collaborating registrars; we observed 277 and 263 registrar IDs in their com domains.Taken together, the four pre-release lists contain more than half as many domains as the pending delete lists during the same time span in the com, net, and org zones, and less than half for biz. It is worth investigating how many of them are sold pre-release instead of becoming available as pending delete domains.Since purchases of pre-release domains are guaranteed and the prices sometimes lower than drop-catch reregistrations, one might expect to observe a higher fraction of pre-release sales than drop-catch re-registrations. To gain a better understanding of how domains are reregistered on their deletion day (and verify the third-party accounts cited in Section 2.3), we need a fine-grained view of the creation time of the re-registration. Re-registrations on the deletion day, however, do not begin until 14:30 for org and 17:00 for biz with around 90 % and 60 % of all re-registrations on that day occurring within the first 30 minutes. Registrar IDs are used in WHOIS records to identify the sponsoring registrar of a domain, but there is no 1:1 mapping to companies since a registrar could use multiple IDs (e.g., due to acquisitions of other registrars), and it has been reported that drop-catch services use multiple credentials in order to increase their success rate during the drop [8,28]. This suggests that the 0-day distribution in Figure 6 is dominated by the drop, and that the remainder of the day may be more akin to the postdeletion day distribution in Figure 7, with the additional resources being deployed only for the time of the drop. To that end, we compute metrics from ICANN's registry transaction report for com in August 2016 and make the following observations:• Domain creations by drop-catch registrars are typically for a one-year duration, whereas other registrars often have a higher fraction of domains paid in advance for up to ten years. This confirms accounts of the drop, when the registry systems are flooded with speculative domain creation requests, most of which fail because the domain is not yet available, or has already been re-registered by a competitor.Especially the latter point has implications for the domain registration systems managed by the registries. Conservatively estimated, at least 80 % of all attempts can be attributed to failed drop-catching, which means that drop-catch services are responsible for a very large majority of all domain creation requests received by Verisign, the com registry.The large number of registrar IDs engaging in dropcatch found in Section 4.2 does not correspond to thousands of independent drop-catch services, but rather some drop-catch services using large numbers of registrar IDs. Another cluster contains names that look similar to the human eye, such as "Charlemagne 888, LLC," "George Washington 888, LLC," and "Napoleon Bonaparte, LLC"-these are grouped because of their contact information and belong to the drop-catch service Pheenix. Figure 9 shows that regular domain registrars such as GoDaddy maintain a constant or only modestly increasing number of registrar IDs, whereas drop-catch clusters grow over two orders of magnitude in an apparent arms race among drop-catch services [38,39]. Note that the plot only shows cluster size increases due to newly allocated registrar IDs because we always apply the February 2017 clustering. 26th USENIX Security Symposium 875 com (3232) net (721) org (1472) Figure 11: CDF of the last observed bids for successfully acquired drop-catch domains with multiple backorders on DropCatch (February to June 2017). The curve for org is shifted to the left because of a promotion ($ 15 starting price instead of $ 59). Figure 11 shows that a majority of auctions remained close to the starting price, whereas 3.9 % of com auctions exceeded one thousand dollars. In comparison, the 1252 registrar IDs controlled by DropCatch represent a daily fixed cost of at least $ 13.7 k, or approximately $ 5 per sold com domain (ignoring other costs and domains). Therefore, we focus on two metrics that relate directly or indirectly to the number of visitors that a domain is expected to receive due to its past history.Drop-catch re-registrations appear to be correlated to the traffic data reported by the pending delete lists, as over 80 % of com domains with more than 100 k visitors are re-registered on the deletion day as opposed to 50 % of domains with 10 k -100 k visitors, or 5 % of domains with fewer than 1 k reported visitors. Similarly, in 2017, the Alibaba cluster with only two registrar IDs is ranked first, before the DropCatch cluster with 1252 registrar IDs. While the cost is comparable to regular domain registrations, such "do-it-yourself" drop-catching is expected to succeed only for relatively non-competitive domains not targeted by the large drop-catch services.The relative ranking of the known drop-catch services DropCatch, SnapNames and Pheenix remains the same in our 2016 and 2017 data. Even before the increase, Pheenix re-registered fewer domains per registrar ID than DropCatch or SnapNames, suggesting that Pheenix may be less efficient in using their registrar IDs.Despite the widely supported recommendation that customers place backorders with all services [7,12,31], we do not know how many customers follow this advice, thus our findings should not be seen as a comparison of how successful drop-catch services are in fulfilling their customers' orders. At the same time, some wellknown drop-catch services such as Pool are not among the most highly ranked clusters, which leads us to believe that we cannot currently characterise their performance due to the limitations inherent in our methodology. Upon closer inspection, we find that SnapNames' website features a file of domain names "in auction," which appears to contain only domain names that were recently re-registered during the drop, and that all have an active website with a parking page during the three-day duration of the auction. Anti-abuse tools may need improved detection of ownership changes that are not re-registrations. • Drop-catch services have a significant impact on the domain name registration system: The Top 3 account for 75 % of all accredited registrars, and drop-catch is responsible for over 80 % of all domain creation attempts, yet results in no more than 9.5 % of successful com domain registrations. Our analysis has shown that there is significant demand for expired domain names (e.g., over 10 % of all com domains re-registered immediately on the day that they were deleted), and that there is a highly competitive environment of drop-catch services that race to be the first to re-register a domain in the very instant that it is deleted (e.g., over half of org re-registrations on the deletion day take place within a 30 s time frame). However, there are administrative concerns, as pre-release sales do not allow buyers to freely choose their registrar, prevent the former domain owner from using the 30-day redemption period to recover the expired domain, and might incentivise registrars to make late domain renewals more difficult (or expensive) for their customers because of the potentially more lucrative pre-release sales.From a security perspective, domain ownership changes are problematic because of their potential to break domain-based trust mechanisms [44], abuse residual trust [33], and more generally profit from residual traffic in various ways that are not necessarily illegal, but often undesirable. As a policy-based approach, registrars could be required to maintain a public log of ownership changes, similar to Certificate Transparency [30], so that security mechanisms can "reset" trust in a reliable way: Whitelists can drop domains after certain changes of ownership, web browsers can purge cached website permissions, and websites can remove links pointing to a deleted domain.What exactly drives that demand for expired domain names, whether it is intended "productive" use, abuse [22,33], monetisation through advertising [48], or speculation with the goal of reselling the domain name, is still an open question, and an interesting direction for future work.