We find that most metrics of user behavior are unaffected by its removal, providing evidence that the EV indicator adds little value in its current form. Second, we conduct three experimental design surveys to understand how users perceive UI variations in identity indicators for login pages, looking at EV UI in Chrome and Safari and URL formatting designs in Chrome. Such misunderstandings result in common attacks like phishing and social engineering [36]. For example, before a user types their Google password into a webpage, the user should verify that the domain in the browser address bar is "google.com" and that the padlock icon is present. Users can check the EV indicator to verify that a website is associated with an established legal entity that they trust.Prior work suggests that neither URLs nor EV indicators work very well as indicators of website identity. For example, most EV indicator research is ten years old and studied the first browser EV UI from Internet Explorer 7. Further, prior work does not examine how users react to website identity indicators in the wild.In this paper, we examine the effectiveness of browser identity indicators -URLs and EV UI -from several angles. We find little evidence that the absence of the EV indicator affects how users interact with the site. In these surveys, we find no evidence that the EV UI in either Chrome or Safari impact how comfortable users feel when logging into a webpage.Finally, having found little evidence that EV indicators influence user behavior, we consider whether URLs can be more effective identity indicators (Section 5). For example, "google.com" is the registrable domain in the URL "https://accounts.google.com/", and "google.co.uk" in "https://accounts.google.co.uk/".The registrable domain is typically the identity indicator of interest because when an organization controls a registrable domain, the same organization can typically control all the subdomains and paths within that domain. A user visiting the attack website might notice that there is no EV indicator for the victim business and thereby conclude that the website is not the legitimate website for the victim business.EV certificates are typically more cumbersome to obtain than DV certificates. For example, the personal finance management site mint.com has a legal entity name of "Intuit Inc." To understand whether browser EV UI has an effect on user behavior in the wild, we analyze data from a large-scale field experiment. The exception is that users who see the EV UI are more likely to open and interact with the Page Info bubble, which is anchored to the connection security indicator chip (Figure 3). We use these URL-keyed metrics to check for changes in user behavior on specific well-known sites with EV certificates. Chrome 71 was fully rolled out to the Stable channel during this time period. In our study, we analyzed a set of user behaviors that we hypothesized might be affected by a user's perception of the security and identity of a site.Our selection of metrics is informed by a review of related work (Section 7). Chrome's Page Info bubble is the dialog that appears when a user clicks on the main connection security indicator in the address bar ( Figure 3 To see if there are statistically significant effects on any of our metrics of user behavior between our control group and our experimental group, we perform a Welch's t-test for unequal sample variances (as our sample sizes and variances are not guaranteed to be equal between our treatment and control groups) for each metric of interest.For each metric, we report the difference between the experimental group and the control group, the 95% confidence interval for the difference, and the p-value of the t-test. For example, perhaps when the EV UI is disabled, users use a throwaway password or deny all permission prompts. It is possible that the absence of the EV indicator influenced these metrics on particular sites but did not have a significant effect when aggregated over all EV sites.Incomplete simulation of attack scenarios. For example, consider a website that spoofs paypal.com but is hosted at an obviously incorrect URL. 7 Changes to browser security and identity indicators come with the risk that users feel safer on malicious sites and take actions that they wouldn't otherwise take (for example, a user might enter credit card details on a scam site because the UI change made them believe it was safe). In this case, we expected the experiment to, at most, make users act more cautiously on legitimate sites, since we were only modifying positive security UI (compared to, for example, prior work experimenting with full page connection security warnings [14]). We note that Brave Browser, which is based on the Chromium project, has opted in to not showing the EV UI using our experimental feature [2]. Users in the control group, who saw EV UI, were significantly more likely to open the Page Info bubble. Another hypothesis is that users notice and are curious about the EV indicator, even if it does not influence their security decisions (consistent with prior work that found that users noticed identity indicators but did not use them in their decision-making processes [28,33,40]). The only differences that were significant at the p < 0.05 level were for Page Info behavior (highlighted). However, if we apply a Bonferroni correction with m = 60 (three metrics checked across 20 origins), then we should instead consider a significance level of α = 0.05 /m = 0.0008. Does the EV UI help users detect cross-jurisdiction collision attacks? The surveys showed participants a login screen for a wellknown financial webpage in their respective countries: PayPal in the U.S. and HSBC in the U. Table 3: Summary of our (blinded) per-origin analysis from our UKM dataset. One condition omitted the country code entirely, one showed the correct country code (US or GB), and three showed incorrect country codes (MX, RU, and BR). Safari changed its EV display in macOS 10.14 to no longer display the legal entity name. We found no evidence that the country code displayed in the EV indicator helps users detect a cross-jurisdiction attack.Quantitative results. U.S. participants were most likely to describe feeling familiar with the webpage (e.g., "PayPal is well known so it makes me feel somewhat comfortable.") , while U.K. participants most commonly pointed to an HTTPS indicator (e.g., "the https along with the padlock in the address bar") but not EV-specific UI.Participants referred to cues in the content area such as:• familiarity with the webpage • the page's simplicity or ease of use (e.g., "I feel very comfortable because it is easy to understand...") • the page's general design (e.g., "A comfortable amount of white space without the page feeling empty") • the page looking normal or expected (e.g., "The sign in system here has followed a standard sign in page and gives all necessary help") When referring to cues in the browser itself, participants most commonly referred to the HTTPS indicator, specifically identifying the padlock icon (e.g., "Mainly because of the padlock on the top search bar makes me think it's secure enough to use safely"). Even when participants did notice, it did not necessarily make them uncomfortable (e.g., "I never noticed the MX on a PayPal page, but it seems legit.") Figure 6 displays an example heatmap for these clicks. Additionally, these results suggest a cross-jurisdiction attack could be viable in part because users infer the legitimacy of a website from the presence of HTTPS indicators. In the U.S., participants were most likely to say they felt uncomfortable logging in because they could not see the URL (e.g., "There's no web address present, so it could be a spoofed page"). In this survey, we showed users a screenshot of a Google login page with a suspicious URL in the browser address bar (accounts.google.com.amp.tinyurl.com instead of accounts.google.com). This survey showed participants a Google sign-in page with an incorrect URL (accounts.google.com.amp. tinyurl.com), simulating a phishing attack. Condition 1 (the control) used the Chrome 69 address bar UI, while other conditions attempted to draw attention to the registrable domain (tinyurl.com) in various ways. 85% of all participants said the website was Google, when in fact, the address said tinyurl.com. I've seen it plenty of times.") When describing discomfort, participants most commonly cited oddities with the URL (e.g., "It seems to be an attempt to spoof Google on tinyurl"). For example, one participant reported feeling "Very comfortable" with the tinyurl.com URL: "Because the URL looks like a Google page should. We contribute new findings that EV indicators are likely ineffective against cross-jurisdiction collision attacks and that Safari's old and new EV UIs have similar impacts on users' comfort levels. Removing the EV indicator did not affect most user behaviors, suggesting that an EV certificate does not provide a good defense against phishing or social engineering. We conclude that browser vendors should pursue more radical redesigns of their current website identity indicators if they want them to be more effective. Prior work has seen some success in redesigning EV indicators to make them more noticeable [33] or more understandable [8], but not better able to help users detect attacks. We therefore recommend that the security community focus on triggering active warnings when a website's identity is suspicious (for example, when a domain is suspiciously similar to a popular domain), rather than relying on users to notice and act on passive identity indicators. For example, the Page Info bubble could explain the site's identity and how users should take action on it. In the 2000s, a number of studies analyzed how users react to EV indicators, finding that they were not effective in helping users detect phishing. Moreover, they study the very earliest EV indicators; little work has been done recently to study EV in modern browser UIs. It remains an open question whether a redesigned EV indicator can effectively prevent phishing and social engineering attacks. This demonstrated that a malicious website could abuse the EV indicator's privileged position in browser UI to make the attack website seem more legitimate.Another researcher obtained an EV certificate for a company named "Stripe, Inc.", mimicking the payments company but incorporated in a different state [11]. However, we do lend credence to the crossjurisdiction collision demonstration by evaluating whether users notice cross-jurisdiction collisions (Section 4). In a lab study with a think-aloud protocol, Jakobsson et al. [25] concluded that users look at URLs in the process of determining whether a website is authentic, but they can be easily fooled by tricky URLs.Xiong et al.[40] expanded Lin et al.'s work to include a control condition that did not highlight the domain in the UI, as well as a larger, more representative participant group and eye-tracking data. Felt et al. [16] surveyed thousands of users to redesign connection secu-rity indicators that met modern design constraints and better communicated the intended semantics.Multiple studies have investigated user understanding of connection security and HTTPS, finding that users, especially those without technical backgrounds, do not have well articulated mental models for how the Internet works [26], and often conflate HTTPS and the lock icon with site security rather than connection security [38]. Browser identity indicators, including URLs and EV certificates, are supposed to help users identify phishing, social engineering, and other attacks, but prior lab studies and surveys suggested that older browser identity UIs are not effective security tools. To design better identity indicators, we recommend that browsers consider focusing on active negative indicators, explore using prominent UI as an opportunity for user education, and incorporate user research into the design phase. Figure 9 shows the full set of heatmaps for the crossjurisdiction EV survey. Thanks to Devon O'Brien, Jim Bankoski, Parisa Tabriz, Ryan Sleevi, Andrew Whalley, and Chelsea Tanaka for their support and feedback on this work.