Various justifications for password expiration have been found: the longer a password is 'alive', the higher the chance of compromise and the need to reset passwords (due to sustained attacks or inevitable leakage), or, that expiration limits the portability of a compromised password, as old passwords may be replicated on other services for convenience [8,15,28]. Further, passwords of sufficient strength can be combined with background protections to be strong enough in most scenarios: a password which can resist 10 6 guesses is all but uncrackable in an online attack scenario [25], if combined with sensible throttling [25,45]. The new policy allows users to select any password of character length 8 or more with an estimated information entropy (Shannon entropy, a poor measure of cracking resistance, but still widely deployed) of at least 50 bits (see Section 3.3 for the policy specifics). A password with an estimated entropy of 50 bits has a lifetime of 100 days, and every additional bit of entropy increases the lifetime by approximately 3 days, up to 350 days for 120 bits of entropy.We then use the term password strength here as the number of days a password lives for before being expired, as this is a measure of account strength that is visible to both the users and managers of the system.The research questions examined in this paper are:RQ1 What effect does the password policy of variable expiration have on a user's choice of password? RQ3 What can be discerned about the impact of a policy intervention at a large institution from system logs?We believe that this research constitutes the largest analysis of password data from a single institution with over 100,000 enrolled users in the system, who change their passwords nearly 200,000 times and reset (forgotten or expired) their passwords 115,000 times over a period of 14 months. Our approach is novel as we analyse routine change and intentional reset events together, to understand individual users' journeys through adoption and continued use of the new system. We draw on 93 interviews with staff and students for anecdotal user feedback in Section 4.7. The current state of the art is zxcvbn [46], which algorithmically accurately estimates the strength of weak (< 10 4 guesses) passwords with only 234kB of data. To accurately estimate the strength of stronger passwords, significantly more storage and processing power is required, however this is infeasible for real-time feedback [43]. As researchers have identified the need to raise the minimum strength of passwords, a large number of studies have focused on helping and educating the user in choosing stronger passwords. Users have been subjected to immediate feedback and suggestions before submitting their password choices [38,39] with varying degrees of success. We then leverage the opportunity to measure behaviour through password change events over time (where this would be impacted by users' capacity to remember passwords and use longer passwords in practice). This allows for great internal validity through the ability to control the environment and measure specific properties of users choices and behaviours around passwords. More recently Bonneau pushed the scientific principles of conducting password research by legitimately and rigorously analysing passwords of 70 million Yahoo! users [7]. Users may not assign much value to these accounts, unless their personal data/money is stored there.Apart from our research, the only other comparable study of password behaviour in a work environment with high value passwords to study is by Mazurek et al. [32]. The authors discover significant correlations between a number of demographic and behavioural factors and password strength, and we will be comparing our demographic findings to this research primarily.Related to passwords, Parkin et al. studied a static password expiration policy of 100 days in a university, contrasting the analysis of helpdesk-related system events over a period of 30 months to findings from a small set of 20 interviews with system users [35]. Users appreciated the need for security and strong passwords, but their attempts to create strong passwords were frustrated by usability issues not directly apparent from system events (such as an inability to know in advance what the system would accept as a valid password). The password change/reset interface is web-based. Below the second password entry box are a password strength meter and a text field that displays the new password's lifetime in days. We received access to the password change and reset logs, which consisted of timestamps, anonymised user IDs, action performed (i.e., change/reset/etc), the integer password lifetime of the new password (100-350), as well as some coarse demographics information for the 100,000 users. We received IRB approval for our approach to log analysis, alongside in-person interviews with a subset of system users (see Section 4.7) (UCL Ethics ID 5336/007). Passwords are required to: include at least one character from three of four possible character types (lowercase character, uppercase character, number, and symbol); be between 8 and 30 characters long, and; not contain the user's username or parts of their real name. A number of factors decrease the entropy: repeated characters; lexicographically subsequent characters as well as the presence of a substring of the password in a dictionary of size 306, 000. While users may resort to password managers to store their password for use in browsers, students (Undergraduate, Postgraduate and Medical) accessing the machines in university computer rooms will still have to type the password. Research staff and students however may have the flexibility to type their password very infrequently, especially if (a) they are using devices which they themselves manage and which no other user would have access to, and (b) they can complete their work or study activities with minimal or ad-hoc access to services managed through the single-sign-on system. The UK's Universities and Colleges Information Systems Association (UCISA) distinguishes between the information security roles and competencies for distinct groups in universities [42]. Given both the frequency of use and the perceived value of accounts, we expect students to have weaker passwords than other groups, and researchers to have stronger passwords. We also expect administrative staff to value their account security while balancing any increases to password strength (delaying password change) with lower time cost per system authentication event. Interviews were approximately 30 minutes in duration, and included discussion of: services accessed through university login; perceptions of passwords and security in relation to university-related tasks, and; participants views of the university's password system. Student participants had been at the organisation on average for approximately two years (including many who had joined the university just before the new system was deployed); staff participants had used the university systems for on average of approximately five years. The two distributions of password resets (when a password has been forgotten or it has expired) and changes (when the user still knows the previous password) are virtually identical. First, the mean password entropy reported by Mazurek et al. is calculated by state-of-the-art bruteforcing, compared to an information theoretic approach chosen by our IT department that only weakly correlates to actual password strength. This explains the high concentration of passwords with 100 days lifetime, compared to the study performed at CMU; where policy and strength meter are not linked to the measured guessing strength.The same explanations also apply to the differences between our analysis and Bonneau's analysis of cracking attempts of the Yahoo! password dataset [7, Figure 6 in particular]. Their identified cumulative distribution is aligned with our data, although Bonneau achieves a 50% success rate with 10 6 guesses. Secondly, there is a peak of password resets in Jan-Feb 2017, which corresponds to the expiration of all passwords of users who joined the university in September '16 and had a fixed lifetime of 150 days. In the full period studied, more users (66%) had to reset their password than noton average, a user had to reset their password 1.08 times. The cost of a reset is significantly higher than a change, as it requires either physical presence at the institution's help desk or using a phone-based reset system. 0 resets 1 resets 2 resets 3 resets 4 resets Figure 4: Average password lifetime of unexpired passwords by number of password resets. At 350 days users change their previously strongest passwords to one that is as strong or weaker password, causing a pronounced dip in the average password expiration.There is a strong positive correlation between each user's previous password strength and the likelihood of that same user resetting their password before expiration (i.e., forgetting the password, Spearman's ρ = 0.95, p < 10 −15 ). The minimum reset frequency per day of actual password lifetime is achieved with passwords which have a 100 day lifetime. While system owners should obviously try to minimise the number of resets required, it appears one reset per year per user is an acceptable upper bound.The answer to our first research question is alluded to in the mean password strength change of 12.73 days (as shown in Figure 5). Figure 5 indicates that this effect may also be present in our dataset: 20% of changed passwords have identical expiration as their previous password, and 36% vary within 3 bits of entropy.These figures vary slightly during the period of time analysed here, with a gradual increase to 28% in February (3 months after the change in policy) but returning to 20% in June and remaining constant from then on. The change rate initially decays before exhibiting the shape of a gamma distribution starting at 70 days -at the time of the first expiration warning email for passwords of 100-day strength, peaking at just before day 100, when a large number of user passwords expire.These results imply that users reset their passwords primarily for two reasons: failure to recall the password, and the forced expiration of the password by the system. In Fig- ures 2 and 8 to 10 we apply the same 31-day moving window to smooth out fluctuations due to weekly patterns (e.g., weekends, when most users are not actively using the system). Initially we observe a small drop in strength between November '16 and February '17 (after the adoption of the policy), as users become accustomed to the new system. It is calculated by performing a linear regression on users' previous (x) and new password lifetimes (y). A quarter of users have a password lifetime of less than 110 days (see Fig- ure 1), and have to change their passwords on average every 80 days (see Figure 6), but every time they do, they increase their average password strength. As new users have yet to catch up to the password strength of existing users, it is likely that the mean password strength in the university will increase further.As we do not have data for the users' password strength before the adoption of the new password change system and policy, we are unable to do a rigorous beforeafter comparison of strength data that takes into account all factors that may have contributed to this changefor example the old system did not give any feedback on their password strength. They then performed a Cox regression on password survival times, reporting a 1.83 times chance of password compromise for business school passwords than for computer science.In a naive model, 3.8 × 10 14 guesses could be estimated as fully eliciting 48.43 bits. If we increase the attacker's brute force capacity to 60 bits (10 18 guesses), the expected proportion of accounts which may be compromised increases to 36% and 44% respectively.In either case School of Education passwords are 1.13 and 1.22 times as likely as Engineering passwords to be guessed. These users are very different to the rest of the population: their account usage is low, so a long password expiration time will help minimise the frequency of password changes/resets; being potentially remote to the university, they may perceive the potential cost of a forgotten password as being much higher.The results presented in this section answer our initial research questions: users have responded to the freedom of choosing their password lifetime slowly, but have in time increased their password lifetime considerably. So I had to keep adding characters to get it to say strong. "Conversely, E25 found it difficult to create a valid password that was not labelled 'Weak':"I probably tried about 6-7 passwords before I got to the one that it would accept ... It [the password meter] just kept not getting past the failed point ..."Others would consider password length alongside the need to type the password many times, and as a result would aim for a 'Medium'-strength password of around 8-12 characters. "A number of participants commented that although they had created a longer password than before, they immediately reset their password as they found it too complicated to type, such as S17:"even though I could remember it wasn't practically very helpful if you have to put in you know twenty characters. So then I changed it to something that was shorter and last a little less time I just could remember that. The intervention took time to gain traction, and it may have been that this time could have been shortened in some way. In the current format of the policy, the weakest possible password is strong enough to withstand an online attack (need to withstand 10 6 guesses); the increase in strength has not been pronounced enough to protect against offline attacks [23]. The benefits for users rely on their perceptions: our user interviews found that the possibility of longer lifetimes was welcomed, and perceived this as an improvement considering their previous experiences of organisational password policies.Here we have considered the different contexts in which users interact with the password policy. While the security community is moving away from prescribing password expiration, we have found that users 'play the game' and adapt their passwords in order to receive longer lifetimes. Results show that the intervention took over 100 days to gain traction, and that users took over 12 months to move from a lower-than-initial average 146-day (63 bits) to a higher 170-day (70 bits) password lifetime. One take-away here is that conclusions about the impact of an intervention should not be drawn based on immediate improvement or lack thereof. After an intervention is deployed it may benefit from being monitored and calibrated, towards reducing problems and reward secure behaviour, where dynamic policy that reacts to users is far from being a common capability.We have found that users will generally change their password in response to password expiry warnings and reminders; warning users too early effectively reduces the password lifetime.