This work studies the out-of-band signal injection methods to deliver adversarial control to embedded MEMS inertial sensors and evaluates consequent vul-nerabilities exposed in control systems relying on them. Thus, it remains unrevealed that to what extent attackers could exploit embedded inertial sensors and possibly control the systems relying on them.To achieve adversarial control over inertial sensors embedded in real systems, we need to consider several realistic factors: (a) Attack setting. In this work, we develop generalizable methods that could manipulate inertial measurements of embedded sensors and trigger actuations of different kinds of control systems in both directions.Acoustic signals injected at resonant frequencies of inertial sensors are usually out-of-band signals, which will be sampled by the analog-to-digital converter (ADC) with an insufficient sample rate. We find that a phase offset could be induced in the digital signal by switching the frequency of out-of-band analog signals.Based on our analysis, we develop non-invasive attacks to manipulate the output of embedded inertial sensors as well as the derived information to deceive different kinds of control systems. Our proofof-concept attacks demonstrate adversarial control over self-balancing, aiming and stabilizing, motion tracking and controlling, navigation systems, etc.• We propose the out-of-band signal injection model and methods to manipulate the oscillating digitized signal when an analog signal is sampled with an insufficient sample rate. Therefore, the mass-spring structure of inertial sensors could serve as a receiving system for resonant acoustic signals and allow attackers to inject analog signals at specific frequencies. Because of their ubiquitousness and criticality in control systems, it is important to examine MEMS inertial sensors' reliability and evaluate the resilience of control systems under sensor spoofing attacks.This work evaluates non-invasive spoofing attacks against embedded MEMS inertial sensors on a wide range of control systems in consumer applications. The spoofing attack against embedded inertial sensors is non-invasive and can be implemented without physical contact to the target device. Since the sensing mass under resonance is oscillating at the same frequency as sound waves, the resulting analog signal can be described by,V (t) = A · sin(2πFt + φ 0 ) (1)where F is the frequency of resonant sound waves and the amplitude A = A 0 k a k s . We have,F = n · F S + ε (− 1 2 F S < ε ≤ 1 2 F S , n ∈ Z + )(3)Substitute (3) into (2), we have:V [i] = A · sin(2πε i F S + φ 0 ) (i ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, ...})(4)These equations describe the basic relationship between the out-of-band analog signal and the digitized signal: a sinusoidal analog signal with a frequency F will be aliased to a digital signal with a frequency of ε.Our discussions in this section mainly focus on signals with frequencies close to the same integer multiple of sample rate. When a signal with a frequency F is sampled with an insufficient sample rate F S (F S < 2F), a drift ∆ F S in the sample rate will be amplified to a deviation of −n · ∆ F S in the frequency (ε) of the sampled signal and n = F−εF S (− 1 2 F S < ε ≤ 1 2 F S , n ∈ Z + ). However, an oscillating digital output induced in the sensor could be interpreted as noises or environmental interferences by the system, and its effect could be limited to disturbances or denial of service (DoS). In this way, during out-of-band signal injections, a digital signal with specific waveforms (such as a one-sided waveform in Section 5.1) instead of an oscillating signal could be fabricated.A[0], A[1], A In this subsection, we propose a novel approach to manipulate the phase of the oscillating digitized signal by changing the frequency of out-of-band analog signals.Assuming the frequency of the analog signal changes from F 1 to F 2 at time t c , andF 1 = n · F S + ε 1 (− 1 2 F S < ε 1 ≤ 1 2 F S , n ∈ Z + ) F 2 = n · F S + ε 2 (− 1 2 F S < ε 2 ≤ 1 2 F S , n ∈ Z + )(8)the analog signal will be:V (t) = A · sin(2πF 1 t + φ 0 ) 0 ≤ t ≤ t c A · sin(2πF 2 (t − t c ) + φ 1 ) t > t c (9)where φ 0 is the initial phase of the analog signal, and φ 1 is the phase of the analog signal when we change its frequency at t c . The basic idea of Side-Swing attacks is to proportionally amplify the induced output in the target direction and attenuate the output in the opposite direction.In DoS attacks, the potential accumulative inertial information induced is often limited because an oscillating signal contributes to about the same amount of inertial measurements in both directions. In this way, the derived heading angle can be accumulated in the target direction.Assuming that the injected analog signals are modulated with a high amplitude A h and a low amplitude A l alternatively, the heading angle accumulated in each cycle of the signal will be,θ = 1 2ε 0 A h · sin(2πεt) + 1 ε 1 2ε A l · sin(2πεt) = A h −A l πε (19)The average angular speed during one cycle is:¯ ω = εθ = A h −A l π (20)When A l = 0, the heading angle accumulated in one cycle would be A h πε , and the average angular velocity would be A h π . The principle of Switching attacks is to control the induced output by manipulating the phase of the digital signal with repetitive phase pacing.Recall (8) and (15) in Section 4.3, when ε 1 · ε 2 < 0 and the frequency of the analog signal changes from F 1 to F 2 , the moving direction of the digital signal will be inverted. The ratio of ¯ ω to ω max is 0.58, which is much larger than 0.15 in the previous experiment with Side-Swing attacks, implying that Switching attacks are more efficient than Side-Swing attacks and could be used to achieve a larger heading angle. Since the frequency (ε) of the induced signal is closely related to the behavior of the device under attacks, we assume attackers could analyze the behavior of an identical device under acoustic effects to find suitable sound frequencies that could be used in the attack. Our proof-of-concept attacks demonstrate implicit control over various systems including self-balancing, aiming and stabilizing, motion tracking and controlling, navigation systems, etc.In our experiments, we find that attacks on gyros induce more responsive actuations in the system and demonstrate more adversarial control than attacks on accelerometers. Before the attack, attackers could analyze the behavior of an identical device under acoustic effects to find the resonant frequency range and profile suitable attack frequencies of the embedded inertial sensor.To find the resonant frequency range, attackers could generate single-tone sound and sweep a frequency range at an interval of 10 Hz. Attackers could try to make |ε| as small as possible by adjusting F and estimate n 0 F S from F = n 0 F S + ε.Empirically, the drift of n 0 F S is usually less than 1 Hz in 1 or 2 minutes, but the accumulative drift in a long time could be larger and n 0 F S could fluctuate in a frequency range with a width of around 10 Hz. Based on the profiled range of possible attack frequencies, attackers could select a frequency that is more likely to be close to n 0 F S and adjust the sound frequency to 'synchronize' to a suitable attack frequency to initiate the attack.Attackers could observe changes in |ε| while they are adjusting F. Based on F = n 0 F S + ε, if the observed |ε| decreases when F increases, attackers could infer F < n 0 F S and ε < 0. In Switching attacks, attackers can switch the frequency of acoustic signals when the induced actuation or acceleration in the target direction begins to attenuate. The speaker is powered by a 50-Watt Lepy LP-2051 audio amplifier and the signal source is an Agilent 33220A function generator. We disassemble other devices to reveal the information written on the package of the embedded inertial sensor, but some devices do not specify the sensor model explicitly even on the sensor's package. Inertial sensors are used to detect tilts of the transporter. While the gyro of MiP robot is not affected by acoustic attacks, its accelerometer is vulnerable to DoS attack, which makes it suddenly stop working and fall to the ground. The goal of such systems is to maintain a device or platform in a certain orientation despite external forces or movements. Inertial sensors can be used by anti-tremor gadgets in health-care applications, such as gyroscopic tablewares and gloves [32] that mitigate hand tremors and assist users to perform daily tasks. We demonstrate Side-Swing attacks and Switching attacks on 3D mouses in [4] and [9]. We evaluate our attacks on an E-design ES120 screwdriver, a B&D gyroscopic screwdriver, and a Dewalt gyroscopic screwdriver.Results. Our experimental results might help designers of these rapidly emerging applications to be aware of potential threats that might be caused by spoofing inertial sensors. Our Side-Swing attacks and Switching attacks on mobile VR applications are demonstrated in [7] and [12]. In our scope, a key question is: Can an attack program facilitate spoofing attacks on inertial sensors by leveraging the real-time sensor data?To answer this question, we investigate automatic methods to implement Switching attacks.Automatic Method. As a result, the attacker would need to manually adjust the sound frequencies every one or two minutes.A method to address this issue is to actively adapt to the drifts in the sample rate. The application utilizes the smartphone's built-in speaker to generate ultrasonic signals and surreptitiously manipulate the gyroscope data while running in the background. The accumulated heading angle is -6.82 rads in about 31 seconds.Our results show that, with real-time sensor data, spoofing attacks on inertial sensors could manipulate the orientation of a navigation system. Furthermore, Kranz et al. showed that a MEMS-fabricated micro-isolator can be applied within the sensor packaging but their work mainly focused on isolating mechanical vibrations [48]. However, adding a randomized delay to each sampling period or computing the average of two samples at a 180 • phase delay could degrade the accuracy of inertial measurements. In addition, we find several consumer-grade techniques that could be used to optimize a sound source.The most direct acoustic amplification method is to use speakers and amplifiers with better performance and output capabilities. If the sound waves are in phase, the add-up SPL of n coherent sources could be [25],L Σ = 20log 10 (10 L p1 20 + 10 L p2 20 + ... + 10 Lpn 20 )(28)Assuming each coherent source is identical, we haveL Σ = 20log 10 (n) + L p1(29)Theoretically, with 8 identical sources, the level increase could be L Σ − L p1 ≈ 18.0 dB. In certain circumstances, however, such settings could be slow and ineffective; it might be difficult for attackers to analyze the observed movements and modulate signals timely and correctly.To reduce potential delays caused by hand tuning and observing, it might be possible to use more customized devices, tools, and programs. Acoustic attacks on inertial sensors exploit resonance and inject analog signals with very high frequencies.To explore the generalizability of the out-of-band signal injection model and attack methods, we investigate whether the oscillating digitized signal could be manipulated when analog signals are sent at relatively low frequencies through a more common sensing channel.We use a vibrating platform to generate mechanical vibration signals and implement Side-Swing and Switching attacks on the accelerometer of a smartphone, as shown in Figure 14. Based on F = nF S + ε 0 (ε 0 ≈ 0), we infer that the sample rate of the ADC is approximately 19.9 Hz.Our experimental results show that, when analog signals are sent at relatively low frequencies, such as frequencies close to F S , the oscillating digitized signal could Time (sec) Z-axis Figure 14: The output of the accelerometer (Z-axis) in a Google Pixel smartphone. Son et al. [64] proposed a DoS attack against MEMS gyroscopes and showed that a drone could be caused to crash by intentional resonant sound. Foo Kune et al. showed that bogus signals could be injected into analog circuits of a sensor through electromagnetic interference to trigger or inhibit critical functions of cardiac implantable electrical devices [49]. Our attack evaluations on 25 devices showed that it is possible to deliver implicit control to different kinds of systems by non-invasive attacks.We characterized the out-of-band signal injection model and methods to manipulate an oscillating digitized signal, which was often considered as noises, to deliver adversarial control.