Particularly, we demonstrate a method to detect the occurrence of cross-device tracking, and, based on a cross-device tracking dataset that we collected from 126 Internet users, we explore the prevalence of cross-device trackers on mobile and desktop devices. Particularly, we are interested in studying the tracking techniques used by cross-device companies, 2 understanding the extent to which cross-device tracking occurs on desktop and mobile devices, and evaluating the privacy implications of machine learning applications to cross-device data. While we examine cross-device tracking via HTTP cookies, pixel tags, and other traditional mechanisms, such tracking can also occur via ultrasound signals [7,31,59] or other side channels, which we do not examine here.As some cross-device companies match billions of devices [22] and social networks have cross-device functionality naturally built into their systems lawmakers began to take notice. Using IP addresses, web domains, and app domains our techniques achieve an F-1 score of 0.91 on the collected data. Based on our dataset we calculate the penetration of cross-device tracking on the Internet and conclude that some cross-device companies seem to have broad insight into Internet users' cross-device usage. Our study is based on work in online tracking ( § 2.1), humancomputer interaction ( § 2.2), and machine learning ( § 2.3). In particular, we provide statistical support for the occurrence of cross-device tracking ( § 3), evaluate cross-device tracking techniques ( § 5), analyze the potential increase in learning power from cross-device data ( § 6), and examine the penetration of cross-device trackers ( § 7); all on real user data ( § 4). The goal of these studies is to improve website navigation, browser prediction of user destinations, and search result relevance for search engines [3]. Indeed, Kamvar et al.'s work [46] confirms this conjecture for the use of web search.In their quest for improving the sharing of bookmarks and other information across devices Kane et al. [47] found that users tend to visit many of the same domains on both their mobile phones and desktops. Specifically, they found that a median of 75.4% of the domains viewed on the phone were also viewed on the desktop, and a median of 13.1% of the domains viewed on the desktop were also viewed on the phone. Our evaluation of tracking techniques broadens this research and is centered on privacy implications.The first place solution of Walthers [82], which reached an F-0.5 score of 0.9, is in some ways representative for the Figure 3: Selected ads served to the desktop browser after visiting the sites in Figure 2 on the mobile browser. The procedure is also intended to be used for determining whether known companies are adhering to the limits that (self-)regulation imposes on them, in particular, as users are given the right to opt out from cross-device tracking [21]. Using a fresh desktop browser without any user data we visited the homepages of five randomly selected news websites from the Alexa rankings [4]-aol.com, latimes.com, nytimes.com, wsj.com, and washingtonpost.com (the test homepages). Fig- ure 3 shows the ads and associated information, that is, the name of the ad (e.g., PetSmart), the domain on which it was served (e.g., nytimes.com), the domain of the ad server (e.g., adsense.com), the ad network serving the ad (e.g., Google AdSense), and the involved cross-device tracking provider (e.g., Google Display Network). One explanation might be that the ad serving was limited to one direction-from mobile to desktop-as users tend to move from a smaller to a larger screen [33,37]. We asked users to supply basic information on their demographics (e.g., age and gender), interests (e.g., finance, games, shopping) [36], and personas (e.g., avid runners, bookworms, pet owners) [84]. At the conclusion of the study we rewarded each user with an Amazon gift card for $15 to $50 depending on the amount of data we received from them. Tables 1 and 2 show further details. For the median user we collected about three weeks of data of which IP addresses and domains are of particular importance for probabilistic cross-device tracking because they can be used to measure the similarity between devices ( § 5.2). Essentially, cross-device tracking is based on resolving two tasks: first, uniquely identifying users' devices ( § 5.1), and, second, correlating those that belong to the same user ( § 5.2). While it does not appear that they will generally replace cookies and advertising identifiers any time soon, various cross-device companies-for example, BlueCava [9] and AdTruth [28]-are making use of device fingerprinting. The mobile-desktop pair with the maximum similarity, max, that is above a similarity threshold, t, is determined, if any. This routine is repeated in three consecutive stages each evaluating similarities between mobile and desktop IP addresses, mobile and desktop URLs, and mobile apps and desktop URLs, respectively. In our approach, as outlined in Figure 5, we determine the similarity between devices based on distance metrics, most notably, the Bhattacharyya coefficient, which is defined for the distributions p and q as Bhatta(p,q)=∑ x∈X p(x)q(x). We selected the best similarity threshold (Sim Thresh) for each stage according to observations in our training runs. As shown in Table 4, running all three stages of the algorithm consecutively on our test set leads to precision, recall, and To make the matching more difficult we included in each run of our algorithm in every stage data from users for which we only had data from one device type: data from one user who only submitted mobile data and from 18 users who only submitted desktop data. Specifically, for each correct match between a user's mobile and desktop device we counted a true positive. For each incorrect match we noted a false positive. A false negative means that an instance should have been matched, however, remained unmatched.Running the three stages of our algorithm consecutively leads to approximately balanced results for precision (0.88) and recall (0.95), as shown in Table 4. While it is challenging to improve one without adversely affecting the other [49,73], the similarity thresholds provide the controls for adjustment. Figure 6 shows changes in precision and recall for different similarity thresholds and distance metrics. They reached an average F-0.5 score of 0.86 in the Drawbridge competition [23] using only features from IP address data. Some users can be better matched based on IP addresses and others on web domains or apps.We note that we leveraged a manual mapping between apps and desktop domains via company names or other common identifiers thereby transforming a feature with minimal effect in our dataset and the Drawbridge competition [14,48,50,53,62,71,75,82] to a useful feature. In future work it would be interesting to examine the extent to which the time, order, and duration of app and url access play a role for device correlation. To examine the first premise we randomly selected 50 U.S. domains out of the top 5K sites that were quantified by Quantcast [70] and found a mean of 17.1% users visiting a website both on a mobile and desktop device (during a 30-day period and at the 95% confidence level with a lower bound of 14.4% and an upper bound of 19.5% using the bootstrap technique). However, even if this dataset would be available, it would only allow an incomplete analysis, particularly, as features were generally anonymized and mobile web history was not included in the dataset. In this section we examine whether cross-device data enables cross-device companies to make more accurate predictions than they could make using data from individual devices alone. However, as we also found a lack of performance increase for predicting a user's gender, it appears that some prediction tasks might not become more accurate with the availability of cross-device data. As a starting point for our feature creation we used Alexa category rankings [5] and Google Play store categories [38] to identify the top 25 finance domains that have both a website and an app. Using desktop data only we tried to increase the performance to the level of the combined mobile and desktop data, which : Logistic regression for predicting interest in finance from mobile web domains and apps (Mob) and desktop web domains (Desk). The F-1 score based on features from both types of data (Mob & Desk -108 Features) is higher than the scores obtained using mobile and desktop data individually (even with more features as in Desk -2,923 Features). We observed similar results for value shoppers with F-1 scores of 0.17 (Mob -85 Features), 0.25 (Desk -99 Features), and 0.41 (Mob & Desk -104 Features). However, we were only able to obtain an F-1 score of 0.58 by substantially increasing the feature space to 2,923 features, at which point we saw no further improvement. The predictions that users have an interest in finance are shown in orange while the negative predictions for not having an interest in finance are displayed in blue. For the latter the F-1 scores are: Mob -91 Features: 0.77, Desk -107 Features: 0.83, Desk - 2,923 Features: 0.86, and Mob & Desk -108 Features: 0.89. We did not only observe such patterns for users with an interest in finance but also for value shoppers-a randomly selected persona category. Predicting a user's Jewish religion serves as an illustrative example. For example, through their integration into many websites and apps Facebook and Google appear to have vast reach into the various devices of their users as well as the ability to deterministically match those [73]. To identify trackers inside of apps we selected a total of 153 third party software development kits (SDKs) listed on AppBrain [6] encompassing SDKs of ad networks (e.g., Smaato), social networks (e.g., Twitter), and analytics services (e.g., comScore). We believe that these technologies warrant substantial further investigation as we suspect that a large amount of trackers make use of them. 13 From these sets of third party trackers we identified 124 cross-device trackers; 118 trackers that appeared on both mobile and desktop websites and 6 SDKs that are associated with a desktop tracker as well. Mob Table 5: Cross-device companies' (D = deterministic and P = probabilistic according to their websites' claims) coverage of websites and apps on average for the users in our dataset (n = 107). However, Atlas Table 6: Domains with the highest cross-device company counts out of 1,829 domains whose URL occurred in both mobile and desktop data in our CDT dataset. While there are no specific statutes or regulations for cross-device tracking in the U.S., the field is subject to self-regulation, most notably by the Digital Advertising Alliance (DAA) and the Network Advertising Initiative. [21] In order to examine the level of compliance with this transparency requirement we randomly selected 40 DAA member ad networks that advertised their cross-device capabilities on their websites and analyzed their privacy policies.We found that 23 disclosed their cross-device tracking activities while 17 omitted those. After contacting the latter, we received a response from seven. Two pointed us to documents that were linked from the policy that indeed contained compliant descriptions. A representative from another crossdevice company wrote that their cross-device functionality is not yet fully rolled out to clients, and three others announced that they will change their policy (one of those still has to follow through). Another representative simply claimed that the company is "not violating anything." Without contacting us five further cross-device companies simply changed their policies, of which four became compliant. At this point, the DAA guidance does not seem to be enforced rigorously. While it may be true that the majority of consumers will not take the time to understand the tracking practices described in privacy policies, 14 we think that it is still a worthwhile endeavor for cross-device companies to properly disclose their practices, particularly, for audit and enforcement purposes as well as for signaling trustworthiness to the marketplace and to build an environment of rules and norms in privacy disclosure. Establishing an enforceable self-regulatory framework for companies to be transparent about their practices will help to protect consumer privacy and allow cross-device companies to conduct their businesses responsibly.Ultimately, cross-device tracking is part of a larger trend: the Internet of Things (IoT). Given standardized interfaces [43], perhaps, an intelligent personal privacy assistant that is connected to all services and devices of person could be a solution. Tony Jebara is supported in part by DARPA (N66001-15-C-4032) and NSF (III-1526914, IIS-1451500). We also gratefully acknowledge the Comcast Research Grant for our user study. The views and conclusions contained herein are our own.