Even for 22 specific threat actors-which both vendors claim to track-we find an average overlap of only 2.5% to 4.0% between the indicator feeds. These findings raise questions on the coverage and timeliness of paid threat intelligence. They seem to be optimizing for the workflow of their scarce resource-analyst time-rather than for the detection of threats. TI is, simply put, information on attacker behavior that can be used to adapt one's defenses to the threat landscape. Commercial vendors also regularly release analyst-focused reports which go beyond indicators and paint a picture of the tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) of specific actors.While organizations can generate limited forms of TI from their internal systems, they increasingly turn to procuring TI from external sources. A 2019 survey amongst 1,908 IT and security professionals in North America and the U.K. found that 44% of respondents say that the primary source of threat intelligence in their organization is purchased [31]. These services did not provide original TI sources, but helped curate and aggregate otherwise free or low-end indicator feeds. No prior work has analyzed what TI services the high-end vendors in the commercial market offer, how their data compares to OTI and how customers evaluate PTI. The subscription fees of the market leaders usually range in the hundreds of thousands of dollars per year [20]. Using grounded theory, we analyze 14 interviews with PTI customers to understand what sources they are buying, how they use them and how they evaluate added value in the absence of independent analyses. Timeliness, as measured on the small overlap among sources, shows delays of more than a month between sources. Customers value the better curated and more selective paid TI sources over other sources -especially the larger and potentially more noisy open sources -because they consume less analyst time. Threat intelligence services claim to address this by providing the necessary information to identify risks, aid in their quantification, guide the selection of controls, provide indicators to detect adversaries, and show possible courses of action.To a limited extent, TI can be extracted from an organization's own security controls. Such IP addresses and URLs are typically referred to as indicators of compromise (IOCs). Vincenzo Iozzo, Senior Director at CrowdStrike, a key player in this market, articulated this advantage as follows: "If you [the attacker] get detected on one machine, all of your offensive infrastructure has to be scrapped" [17]. Depending on the organization, even a relatively low number of false positives may lead to notification fatigue and thereby reduce the feed value.Timeliness of information in a feed pertains to the time gap between an attack vector occurring and its associated indicators being included in the feed [28]. Timeliness may be essential for the value of a feed used in active defense mechanisms, e.g., intrusion detection middle boxes, but for forensics purposes this is less critical.Ingestibility relates to the structure and consistency of structure in a feed [28], i.e., how well it can be automatically processed.Relevance of a TI feed [28], also referred to as fitness [29], describes how well the indicators and contents of a feed fit an organization's use case. Hence, some numbers are reported as ranges rather than exact counts.Our second data source consists of interviews with 14 security professionals who work with paid threat intelligence. The third question -how do customers use TI and perceive its value? It did not conduct any analysis of the overlap in indicators among the two vendors before we started our research.The offerings of the vendors consisted of 5-10 subsets around specific topic areas, e.g., 'financial industry', 'cyberespionage' or 'cybercrime'. Vendors label their intelligence products with metadata, referring to a specific threat actor for 35% of their reports and 60% of all indicators. Three indicator feeds, for the high degree to which they were reused by other open sources [15] -which we expected might lead to reuse in paid TI-and one communitybased aggregator that enables its users to extract indicators from blogs and reports, which vice versa we expected might lead to reuse of PTI indicators in OTI. We compare one month of data from these collected OTI feeds (October 2018) against five months months of indicators from the two PTI vendors (July to December 2018), in order to compensate for the higher churn in the OTI feeds and, again, to find an upper bound in overlap. Grounded theory means that the researchers draw conclusions through a reflexive process of inductive reasoning [10,9]. This approach means that our findings can help form an understanding about how the market for PTI functions, but not about how the reported views are distributed across the global population of security professionals who use PTI.Between August and December of 2019, we conducted 14 interviews with professionals who work with PTI. While this might simply be an artefact of our recruitment effort, it is consistent with the fact that financial sector firms have the highest investment levels in cybersecurity [40] and are thus more likely to acquire expensive PTI subscriptions. A simple interview protocol was used in which participants were asked about: (i) Their definition of threat intelligence; (ii) What commercial sources their organization pays for and, for each of the sources, discuss costs, source properties, use-cases, and valuable organizational outcomes; (iii) Their experiences with use of non-commercial sources; (iv) Their reasons for having discontinued a source, if ever. According to [23], this is a suitable way to ensure reliability of findings for our purposes. This eventually led to analytic codes for TI service types, sources, use cases, and value perceptions. The codebook is reflected in Tables 3 and 4, and is included in Appendix B. Interview number (chronologically) 0 10 20 New analytic codes Figure 1: We reached analytical saturation after 9 interviews, as no more new codes were uncovered. Paid threat intel providers (PTI) 100% Open sources (OTI) 79% Shared sources (STI) 64% Government 50% With product or service 50% Collective procurement 36% Own research 36% We now address the first sub-question: What do paid TI services consist of? Examples are an IP address of known attacker infrastructure, the hash of a piece of malware or a domain associated with a phishing campaign. The publication of indicators is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 unevenly distributed over time. Less overlap means that each vendor is observing unique indicators that are missed by the other providers, suggesting limitations in the coverage of threats.We analysed the overlap for the same 22 actors that both Figure 4: Government and financials represent the main industries as reported on by two leading paid TI providers from 2013-2018. Civil society is the third most targeted sector observed, which is surprising if we assume that these organization are not really in a position to pay for and use high-end TI. We find very low overlap -on average between 2.5 to 4.0%, depending on the indicator type. Advisories and alerts describe current events, such as a software vulnerability being targeted or a threat group expanding their focus to another geographic region.As can be seen in Figure 4, paid TI reports primarily consider threats to government, military, and financial services. "Requests for information (RFIs) are inquiries from customers to the vendor's analysts. These are subscription-based platforms on which customers can run queries, sometimes coming pre-loaded with open source security data. The categorization of such trade tools as 'intelligence products' is up for debate, but our respondents did indeed name them as part of their paid threat intelligence.Custom alerts notify customers of specific risks to their organizations. Note that services offered by vendors are not directly comparable and that therefore this figure gives only a rough indication of pricing in the market as a whole.On the right side ($100,000-$650,000 per year), we find high-end vendors which sell their own TI, while on the left ($30,000-$100,000 per year) we find paid aggregators, whose services primarily consist of providing a platform to integrate TI from other sources and to support analysts with analytics.The wide bandwidth may be explained by pricing models and negotiations. Another respondent described a negotiation with a TI provider in which the asking price was lowered by a factor ten.Although there is leeway and room for negotiation, PTI currently seems restricted to enterprise organizations with large budgets for information security. We then compare indicators from two paid providers and four prominent open source feeds, and establish that there is almost no overlap between the two types of sources. Because of this perceived accuracy, PTI indicators are used with more confidence in detection and other use cases.Overlap among paid and open sources is negligible, even though the OTI lists are vastly more voluminous than the lists of PTI indicators, as can be seen in Figure 6. While there is no ground truth as to when a particular resource (domain, IP, binary) was first used by a threat actor, we can assess timeliness via pairwise comparisons of the different feeds and measuring the delays in which indicators are made available to customers. We find almost no instances where threat intelligence is distributed by other PTI within that vendors do not use the TI from their competitors, or at least not successfully, to find the same indicators in their own telemetry.We conducted the same analysis for the indicators of the two vendors versus the four OTI sources. Network detection (93% of respondents mentioned this) is still the main use of threat intelligence. Note that the number of indicators (n) is low, because it is based on the small overlap between sources. This way, resources -especially attention of analysts -can be allocated toward most relevant threats.Informing business decisions (36%) concerns uses of TI to improve organizational decision-making. Combining TI and other data can generate insights for an analyst on where and how to search for attacker activity in systems and networks.Informing security engineering (21%) includes using TI to organize vulnerability management as part of maintaining the organizations own systems. This resulted in wider set of 16 separate codes of the properties that made TI to be perceived as more valuable. Selectiveness indicates a preference for a low volume, which is seen as an indication of accuracy.These perception of value reflect an intriguing implicit trade-off that users are making; smaller, more curated TI sources are valued higher, as these require fewer organizational resources and may prevent information overload for analysts [4]. Rather, respondents seemed to interpret this in terms of coverage of their threat landscape, i.e. providing information about threats relevant for their organization. They noted: "One vendor had nothing, the other three came with a theory. In Section 6, we compared the timeliness of OTI and PTI and did not find a significant difference. That's the key difference: you're paying for polished intel rather than what we would call raw intel." Six out of fourteen respondents did define some criteria or intelligence requirements in order to evaluate TI sources, often in the form of information gaps in the organizationi.e., what questions the TI team needed to answer.One analyst described using metrics within the network detection use case: "You can [demonstrate the effectiveness] by generating a metric on IOC feeds. We confirm that, indeed, paid TI seems to be a different cup of tea, with distinct intelligence products and low overlap with open TI sources. We find that even when looking at the same actor groups, two of the leading PTI providers have diverging information with very small overlap. And indeed, five years later, our respondents say it is still "mostly guesswork" to understand the visibility and methods of paid TI providers, and with that the value of the services they offer.Under conditions of information asymmetry, buyers rely on signals. There is a rich line of research that has studied the properties of open threat intelligence, also known as abuse feeds and blocklists -e.g., [39,25,19]. While TI as contextualized, high-level information has the potential to remediate these issues [6], a 2019 SANS survey nonetheless found (low-level) indicators of compromise to be valued higher by respondents than information about (high-level) tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) [7]. A common sentiment in the TI industry is that 'real' high-quality threat intelligence may only be obtained from these exclusive closed-source commercial providers, and [31] finds PTI sources are used twice as often as OTI in industry.Second, we contextualize these quantitative approaches to measuring quality by conducting a user study of PTI customers and identify their perceptions of value. As they are among the market leaders at the high end of the market, we assume that our findings are representative for that market, but future work is needed to corroborate this. We analyzed the indicators of two paid TI vendors and found 13.0% of vendor 1's indicators appear in vendor 2's set and -vice versa -a mere 1.3% of vendor 2's indicators in vendor 1's set. The reports concern primarily government, military, and financial institutions -important customers of TI vendors -but surprisingly also pay a lot of attention to campaigns targeting civil society, possibly due to their political significance.Besides indicators and reports, paid TI services also consist of requests for information from analysts, portals with historic information, data mining platforms, and custom alerts. In terms of timeliness, we find no evidence that PTI is faster than OTI, surprisingly enough, although this is based on the small sample of overlapping indicators. We find that one-third of respondents use threat intelligence to improve organizational decision-making: to inform security engineering, to reduce financial fraud, but in one instance also for risk management around international mergers and acquisitions. When a subscription renewal comes up, TI professionals decide if to continue largely based on implicit criteria and tacit understanding of the value of that source.