Gas pump skimmers are easy to install and difficult to detect: criminals can open gas pump enclosures and hide a skimmer in internal payment wiring. In addition, criminals can also avoid being caught using skimmers: many gas pump skimmers have Bluetooth connectivity, allowing criminals to collect payment data safely from inside their car. Based on industry estimates, a single skimmer can capture 30-100 credit cards per day [5] and each card, based on estimates from law enforcement officials, nets the criminal an estimated $500 [53], resulting in a daily loss of $15,000-50,000 per day of operation for each skimmer. 1 Less is known about how long a skimmer remains in operation, but allowing for even one day of operation per skimmer, 2018 losses exceed $16 million across these two states.Gas pumps are an ideal skimming target. While Bluetooth is a vital tool for criminals to exfiltrate data from gas pumps, it also could be an opportunity to make it easier to detect skimmers.In this paper, we evaluate the effectiveness of detecting skimmers with Bluetooth scanning from a smartphone. In these scans, Bluetana detected a total of 64 skimmers installed at gas stations in Arizona, California, Nevada, and Maryland, and it was the sole source of information that led law enforcement to find 33 skimmers.The primary result of this study is the first comprehensive look at how skimmers can appear in Bluetooth scans. We also find that signal strength is a reliable way to determine if a Bluetooth device is located near a gas pump, and thus could be a skimmer.Our study reveals several problems with consumer Bluetooth-based skimmer detection applications [46,2,51]: (1) there are many legitimate products that appear at gas stations that use the same Bluetooth modules as known skimmers; therefore, MAC address-prefix based detection may lead to false positives, (2) there are many Bluetooth modules used in skimmers that do not comply with IEEE MAC assignment requirements. We even found skimmers installed hundreds of miles away that had surprisingly close MAC addresses.The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 provides background on internal gas pump skimming: their construction, monetary incentive, and prevalence in the wild. To make data collection easier, many internal skimmers include a Bluetooth-to-serial module that allows the perpetrator to covertly collect the "skimmed" card data from a safe distance. These skimmers are built using commodity hardware with a total unit cost of $20 or less.Fuel pumps with a built-in PoS terminal have become a very popular target for such internal skimmers: they are unattended, easy to access, and have poor physical security, which make it easy to install a skimmer without being noticed. This skimmer consists of a "Teensy" development board with an ARM Cortex-M4F micro-controller and a Roving Networks RN-42 Bluetoothto-serial module. to keypad to card reader MCU microSD card slot Figure 2: Parts of a typical internal Bluetooth-based fuel pump skimmer. Newer literature has demonstrated attacks on chip payment systems [13,15], and law enforcement in Latin America have begun to find EMV skimmers that are Bluetooth enabled [30,3]. By using a development board, a skimmer requires only rudimentary electronic assembly: soldering wires to the development board.However, skimmers have also been found using what appeared to be fully custom-designed boards. The skimmer shown in Figure 2 uses a Roving Networks RN-42 module, an inexpensive Bluetoothto-serial module found in many skimmers. On the Bluetooth side, a Bluetooth-to-serial module provides a Serial Port Peripheral interface, which most operating systems recognize as a Bluetooth modem and instantiate a serial device for it. The 2.4GHz Bluetooth antenna is included on the module's circuit board (exposed area to the left of the metal shield for the module shown in Figure 2), so the antenna is also hidden.Bluetooth-to-serial modules generally require no configuration, however, most can be reconfigured using Hayes-style modem AT commands. Notably, all of the Bluetooth-to-serial modules we found in skimmers support changing the device MAC address, Bluetooth device name, changing the pairing password, and the ability to become non-discoverable once paired. To monetize stolen credit card data, skimmer installers have two options: sell the data on the black market, or cash out the cards on themselves. Based on our survey of sites selling stolen card data, black market prices for stolen cards fall in the $10-220 range, depending on whether the card is a debit or credit card, and whether it comes with a PIN (for debit) or billing ZIP code (for credit). Rippleshot, a payment fraud prevention service, states: "a single compromised pump can capture data from roughly 30-100 cards per day" [5]. However, LE informed us that criminals may leave skimmers in gas pumps after only a few days of retrieving card data and moving on to another location. To understand the prevalence of skimmers in the wild, we obtained data on recovered skimmers from three regions in the United States: San Diego and Imperial counties of California, with a combined population of 3.5 million; the state of Arizona, with a population of 7 million inhabitants; and the state of Florida, with a population of 21 million inhabitants. The number of recovered skimmers has increased from 2016 to 2018 in both Florida and Arizona. Driven by the observation that skimmers are hard to findfew pumps in San Diego, Arizona, and Florida have been found to have skimmers installed in them (Table 2)-we created a tool, called Bluetana, to evaluate the effectiveness of Bluetooth-based skimmer detection. Bluetana collects all of the Bluetooth scan data that Android makes available, including Device name, MAC Address, Class-of-Device 5 , and signal strength (RSSI). The Bluetooth scan profile of the modules that have been found in skimmers inform which devices we highlight in Bluetana.Skimmers recovered by LE are often found to use CSR (Qualcomm) chip-set-based Bluetooth modules. Our highlighting procedure primarily looks for the default Bluetooth profile of these modules-with the exception of the Device Name which can be missing due to poor signal strength, and modified by criminals in an attempt to hide the device (Section 4). If all three fields (MAC prefix, Class-of-Device, and Device Name) indicate the device is likely to be a skimmer, Bluetana highlights the record in red. In several cases, Bluetana highlighting a device in red was the only reason officials performed a manual skimmer inspections: out of the 64 skimmers we found, 33 were recovered because an official started an inspection only after noticing a device was highlighted in red in Bluetana. Scaife et al. [46] investigated the behavior of these apps and found that they flag skimmers based on either MAC prefix or Device Name. These apps would miss skimmers with non-standard MAC prefixes or customized (missing) device names which Bluetana was able to find (Section 4.1). Combining the signal strength and geo-location with satellite imagery of the gas station, we were able to easily detect when the signal was emanating from inside of a gas pump (example shown in Figure 6). While at a gas station, Bluetana users also noticed this by moving toward the pump area to see if the device's signal strength increases.If we saw any suspicious devices in the dataset, we alerted officials that they should inspect the pumps at the station in question. They also reported that these skimmers are particularly common in Arizona and California; therefore, these states were the focus of our study.The results of our study may not be representative of the nature of gas pump skimming across the country. The problem is, internal registers in many skimmer Bluetooth modules records the last-paired MAC address. In this section, we present the results of our 19 month study of Bluetooth devices observed with Bluetana at 1,185 gas stations across six U.S. states (CA, AZ, NV, MD, IL, NC). Bluetooth scanning is a surprisingly effective way of detecting skimmers: in Arizona, Bluetana has detected skimmers at 1.58% of the 491 stations it scanned, and routine inspections by state inspectors had a similar detection rate of 1.5% from 2016 to 2018. Despite this, criminals do not appear to be modifying the Class-of-Device on any of the skimmers we observed: all of the 87 skimmers detected by Bluetana and recovered independently by LE used the default "Uncategorized" device class. The first three bytes (prefix) of the MAC address typically correspond to the manufacturer of the device.Although MAC address prefixes are often assigned by IEEE (e.g., all of the RN Bluetooth modules have the same manufacturer MAC prefix) the HC modules have a wide variety of MAC prefixes. However, looking at of the MAC prefixes of the skimmers that we observed, a clear pattern emerges: manufacturers appear to be burning module manufacture date into the first four bytes of the MAC address in the following format: YY:YY:MM:(DD). A skimmer with a default Device Name looks innocuous, because some legitimate products using the same modules are also shipped with the default module name (Section 4.3). This is expected because the device sends its MAC and Class-of-Device in the first scan response packet; it sends the device name in a subsequent packet (that may be missed). This is a 99% decrease in search time compared to the average of 30 minutes that inspectors take to check a gas station for skimmers. We conclude that by combining multiple characteristics: MAC prefix, Class-of-Device, and Device Name, there are only a small number of devices that could be confused with skimmers. On average, Bluetana saw 2.2 devices per station (σ = 2.05). However, only a small fraction (4.25%) of these devices matched the characteristics of the skimmers we observed during the course of our study.We performed this study on Classic Bluetooth devices only. However, we observed a large number of BLE devices at gas stations; therefore, switching skimmers to BLE modules may make them more difficult to detect with scanning tools like Bluetana (Section 5.1). This is an important observation because a popular detection application, SkimPlus [51], only flags skimmers based on a hitlist of MAC prefixes [46]; it may incorrectly flag legitimate devices as skimmers.The devices observed with MAC prefixes that were in the YY:YY:MM:DD format (likely HC modules) were mostly skimmers. Also, there were many devices with MAC prefixes unknown to the IEEE, but not in the date format, only one of these devices was a skimmer. The remaining 159 devices are Uncategorized and their MAC prefixes are either: Roving Networks, YY:YY:MM:DD, Unknown, or seen on less than five devices. Three skimmers were disguised as products, however all three were distinguishable because their 7 We do not include 22 of the Bluetana-detected skimmers in this analysis because they were not detected on the first visit to a gas station. To evaluate the accuracy of Bluetooth-based detection, we analyze Bluetana scan data collected during inspections in Arizona. A total of 42 skimmers were recovered during these inspections, of which Bluetana was able to detect 36. There were 757 total inspections where inspectors used Bluetana 8 , Bluetana may have incorrectly detect skimmers in 5.9% of inspections.Incorrectly identifying skimmers is likely due to the fact that RN and HC modules are used in a variety of legitimate products, some of which are seen in and around gas stations. Unfortunately, several of these products also use the default Device Names on their Bluetooth modules (RNBT-xxxx or HC-05). Under the filtering of Section 4, over 8,000 unique BLE devices were seen, making the ratio of Classic to BLE approximately 1:4. However, we have been informed by law enforcement that the individual who installs the skimmer is often independent from the individual responsible for data recovery (called a "mule"). Reprogramming the MAC address on the CSR-based Bluetooth modules, which include the Roving Networks and HC-05 and HC-06 modules, cannot be done using the AT commands used to change device name and pairing. The skimmer installer could also change the device name but not the MAC address, say, to one of the known benign devices using the same module, something that us possible to do by issuing AT commands from the micro-controller to the module. Law enforcement officers could obtain information about the SMS recipient through subpoenas, so receiving the SMS messages on another phone on a US carrier, for example, would be easy to trace.The perpetrator would need to use an SMS service that would not expose his/her identity.Response. When the gas pump's metal door was opened, the signal strength increased significantly, prompting inspectors to look carefully for the skimmer in that pump. From LE sources, we know that criminals often plant skimmers across multiple stations in a given city/county, and the MAC address data collected indicates this. They found that several popular Bluetooth-based skimmer detection applications use a only MAC prefix or device name matching. They found that Bluetooth signal strength (measured by an Android smartphone) is effective for localizing Bluetooth devices [32,57]. Future work should also identify other systems that are vulnerable to using such implants.In this paper, we presented results of a 19-month long measurement study of Bluetooth scanning as a mechanism to detect internal gas pump skimmers. Citizens Bank suffered a loss of $91,580 with 74 compromised customer accounts . . . " USA v. Cristea et al [16] ". . . Altogether, on February 21,2016, FBI surveillance observed Cristea, Co-conspirator #1, and Co-conspirator #2 go to approximately 12 different locations, where, according to CardTronic's records, they withdrew at least $7,000 from at least 18 First National Bank accounts . . . "USA v. Khasanov et al [7] ". . . USPS agents thereafter conducted record checks on the purchased USPS money orders and discovered that 10 of the 57 money orders had been purchased with 5 payment numbers issued by Citibank . . . " The appendix contains excerpts from various public court documents related to cases of credit card skimming. Citizens Bank suffered a loss of $91,580 with 74 compromised customer accounts . . . " USA v. Cristea et al [16] ". . . Altogether, on February 21,2016, FBI surveillance observed Cristea, Co-conspirator #1, and Co-conspirator #2 go to approximately 12 different locations, where, according to CardTronic's records, they withdrew at least $7,000 from at least 18 First National Bank accounts . . . "USA v. Khasanov et al [7] ". . . USPS agents thereafter conducted record checks on the purchased USPS money orders and discovered that 10 of the 57 money orders had been purchased with 5 payment numbers issued by Citibank . . . "