Exact details of the attack were never made public (and cannot be disclosed here), but the attack impacted many computers belonging to research groups, academic departments, and all levels of university services.Initially described by the university as a "network interruption", most of the university's computer systems were temporarily shutdown or taken offline to contain damage. In this paper, we primarily concentrate on crypto-ransomware, as was used in this incident.There is a significant rise in ransomware infections within organizations [18,29]. Our aim was to understand the immediate and longer-term impact of this incident on end-users in hopes of learning how organizations can better prepare and respond. Rarely do we have the opportunity to conduct research studies with a large number of victims of cybercrime in the immediate aftermath of the incident; we believe that the timesensitive data collected here offers valuable insight.We conducted a survey with 150 respondents and interviews with 30 affected students, staff, and faculty to understand their experiences during the attack and the recovery process. Although the first instances of ransomware can be traced back approximately 30 years, the surge in modern ransomware began in 2005 [19,33], with a dramatic increase in prevalence [27] and research attention since 2015. Several proactive or preventative techniques have recently been been proposed, such as UNVEIL [20], ShieldFS [8], CryptoDrop [34], and PayBreak [22] which operate at the operating system and filesystem levels to detect and correct suspicious activity, or FlashGuard [16], which uses the firmware-level recovery properties of solid state drives (SSD) to recover without explicit backups. Kaspersky Labs [18] report that 47% of medium-sized business spend several days to restore access to encrypted data and 25% spend several weeks.In the absence of backups or if the backup files are also encrypted, the victim may have little choice but to pay the ransom in hope to that decryption key will restore the affected files. Estimates range from 25% to 65% [10,15,29]. The most common expert advice to organizations is to not pay the ransom [9,10,17,24,31], but others suggest that paying the attacker may be worth the risk since, without the decryption key, organization could further suffer from lost productivity and expenses spent on recovery [41]. Luo and Liao [23] recommend that prevention of ransomware threats in organizations should focus on awareness education for both upper management and employees.In a personal account of dealing with ransomware [3], Ali defined a "ransomware process" that starts with infection and the victim recognizing the problem through the loss of functionality/data. In reality, however, interviewed victims relied on colleagues for help and continued to be unaware of possible mitigation strategies after the attack. The study offered an interesting preliminary look into end-users' experiences and perceptions of ransomware, but a larger sample size is needed to confirm the results.Given the limited research involving users, we seized this opportunity to collect time-sensitive data in the immediate aftermath of a 2016 ransomware attack. We conducted two studies to understand the impact of this attack on end-users: an online survey with 150 participants ("respondents" hereafter) and interviews with 30 participants ("interviewees" hereafter) who were personally affected by the attack. Respondents consisted of students (38%), university staff (31%), and faculty members (13%) from a wide range of academic backgrounds; 25% of respondents have a technical background. It reconstructed and retroactively assessed participants' thoughts, emotions and behaviours during the attack; their post-and pre-attack security practices; and their impressions on how the university managed the situation and how its emergency protocols for cyber-attacks can be improved. Responses to open-ended questions were analyzed using Inductive Qualitative Analysis [6]. For example, one respondent described how he felt after finding out about the attack: "I was pretty upset that [the university] had not communicated the issues through email or a website update". For example, Round-1 of coding of a question about prominent feelings during the attack generated 19 codes, which were later reduced to 15 after Round-2. For instance, the code Upset was merged with Angry to create the concatenated code Upset/Angry. In total, 31% (n = 47) of respondents said they experienced some type of data loss during the attack, which 25% (n = 37) are personal or work related: 16% (n = 24) were able to recover it through backups and 15% (n = 23) experienced permanent data loss. Prominent feelings evoked by the cyber-attack were "worried" and "concerned" about personal and work data, "frustrated" and "annoyed" about the loss of productivity and poor communication, and "shocked" and "surprised" that a large university could be breached. This is followed by the fear of unauthorized access or theft of personal and financial information (n = 38). Some were concerned about negative consequences of lost productivity (n = 27), such as missing deadlines, and others worried about infected/encrypted computers (n = 17). In the weeks following the attack, the level of concern dropped but respondents remained wary or unsure, pointing to the lingering effects of such incidents.Likelihood of compromise: We first asked about the likelihood of compromise for various services, data, and computers, on a scale of 1 = very unlikely to 5 = very likely. Before the attack, all services, data, and resources were perceived as unlikely to be compromised (M = 2.1 to 2.6). The perceived risk reduced somewhat after the attack (M = 2.7 to 3.8) Figure 3: Mean perceived likelihood of compromise for resources at three time points. Following a similar pattern, respondents felt secure connecting to the university's wireless network before the attack (M = 4.0, SD = 1.1), insecure during the attack (M = 2.1, SD = 1.1), and neutral post-attack (M = 3.0, SD = 1.2). A few respondents using Mac (n = 23) and Linux (n = 8) operating systems also turned off their computers.In the longer term, security practices of 42% (n = 63) of respondents were unchanged by the attack. The majority were informed through word-of-mouth or through the news and social media. Only 12% (n = 18) said they were first notified officially by the university.Many respondents were somewhat dissatisfied with the official university communications during the attack (M = 2.6, SD = 1.3). Only 10% of respondents (n = 15) believed the university managed the situation surrounding the attack well and their most frequent concerns surrounded communications. Within internal communication, respondents wanted clear details about the problem (n = 31), specific and consistent instructions about what to do (n = 21), more frequent updates (n = 15), and overall improvements to the emergency notification system (n = 15). Non-technical respondents were significantly more likely to follow recommended protective advice before (t(52) = −2.52, p < 0.05), during (t(52) = −2.6, p < 0.05), and after the attack (t(51) = −2.95, p < 0.005). We audio-recorded semi-structured interviews with 14 students, 13 staff, and 3 faculty members (n = 30). Interviewee usernames contain a letter identifying the interviewee's role within the university (F = faculty, S = staff, G = graduate student, U = undergraduate student) followed by a randomly allocated sequential number (e.g., F2, S11). We used inductive thematic analysis [6] to analyze the interview data, similar to prior qualitative studies in this area [13,39,42,43]. A Cohen's Kappa (k) test found good agreement between the two researchers' analysis, k = 0.82 (95% CI, 0.80 to 0.85), p < 0.005. Then I realized this thing was not going to stop [...]. "Pretty much everyone was impacted in some way [...] whether it's being not able to use a computer or not being able to use some service", explained an IT staff (S14). A faculty recounted, "I couldn't get into any of my work files; I couldn't work on my lecture; I couldn't do my Powerpoint; I couldn't get into email. University staff were eventually sent home and many students left campus to work. Weeks after the incident, many were still feeling the aftermath of the attack: S1: Even now I still run into issues. . . just when I need things, all of sudden it is not working properly. There are tons of little things like that. . . your work days are interrupted and you are not working at the same pace or being able to accomplish as much as you'd like because you're on the phone for an hour with [computing services]. "A lot of people were stressed and frustrated", said a student, "people were fuming a little bit, especially people who were relying on the [school] computers and weren't able to access those resources" (U8). In our sample, severe data loss (i.e., significant amounts of work/research data permanently lost) was less common than recoverable data loss or no data loss. Others coped by staying off the school network and WI-FI, and incurred financial costs by using their mobile data to access the Internet instead. Especially since exams are coming they were very stressed out and I know a lot of them are constantly talking to their parents 24/7. [Students] want to get in touch with the professors but having no way, and did not know how else to contact them. For example, a student said, "my dad sent me money at that time, but I was not able to check my bank because I was really too scared to check it. I coincidently had a doctor's appointment around that time and my blood pressure was really high. . . I was anxious about the fact that I lost work and people weren't able to email me, then there was a whole rush of people that needed to talk to me, and I was anxious about [catching up]. It appears that most resentment came from a perceived lack of transparency and clear communication about what had happened. "It was kind of like we didn't have a role in this situation. Data lost may have been inevitable, but this highlights how an organization's handling of an incident can impact its strong sense of community. [...] If somebody broke in [to the office] and stole the files in the old days, then the stuff was gone and nobody would scream at them because they didn't make photocopies of them and take them home! if you're not telling people what is going on, that is creating a whole other level of panic" (S11). Others felt the notification came too late: "we're working in the library and then we're told that we can't go on to the WI-FI. They also wanted to know when life could return to normal: G1: Still to this day to be honest, I don't feel like there was ever an end. So it's all very much like it's never really ended. A staff explained: S7: if you had a high reliability that if you paid you would get your stuff back, then it becomes simply a cost: the cost of paying to get it back directly versus the cost of the money and energy that has been spent in the interim trying to bring things back and to fix things. Beyond these, we identified other costs that may not receive as much attention but that can be equally damaging.Emotional toll: Users experience stress and anxiety, and this may extend well beyond the immediate aftermath of an attack since it may take weeks (or longer) for users to catch up, recreate lost data, or deal with the consequences of the attack (e.g., delays in graduating due to lost research data, missed publication deadlines impacting promotion/tenure dossiers, increased workload as a result of lost templates). This was particularly apparent with students who rely on the university infrastructure as their primary internet access point, but also among staff unable to reach colleagues.Indirect financial costs: End-users may incur indirect financial costs, such as additional mobile data, costs relating to working off-campus (e.g., overage charges on home internet accounts), or purchasing additional resources (e.g., a new backup drive). We also suggest having an explicit policy for what will happen in response to an attack, along with explanations. It will likely be infeasible to meet every request, but organizations should recognize that individuals were impacted well beyond the impersonal lost of organizational data.By-passing their involvement in the recovery process further compounds the negative, long-lasting impact. Security policies that are too restrictive (e.g., disabling access to commonly used services), cumbersome (e.g., making it more difficult to accomplish tasks), or that make unrealistic demands on users (e.g., frequent password changes) will be bypassed by users, either intentionally so that they can accomplish their primary tasks [14,44] or accidentally by making errors. It may be tempting to dismiss this as 'the user's fault'; however, in many cases users had legitimate reasons for their decisions: the official storage options did not provide the functionality they needed, the functionality was awkward/difficult to use, or users misinterpreted the 'safest' options. We had the (un)fortunate opportunity to be present in the immediate aftermath of a crypto-ransomware attack at a large academic institution.