During this effort, a large, diverse group of globally-distributed journalists met and maintained critical security goals-including protecting the source of the leaked documents and preserving the secrecy of the project until the desired launch date-all while hundreds of journalists collaborated remotely on a near-daily basis. Through survey data from 118 participating journalists , as well as in-depth, semi-structured interviews with the designers and implementers of the systems underpinning the collaboration, we investigate the factors that supported this effort. We find that the tools developed for the project were both highly useful and highly usable, motivating journalists to use the secure communication platforms provided instead of seeking workarounds. While it is impossible to state definitively that this (or any) system could not have been compromised, ICIJ's efforts appear to have been successful in maintaining their primary security goals, including: (1) protecting the identity of the source of the Panama Papers' documents (2) maintaining control of the documents within their network of collaborators and preventing their early public disclosure, (3) protecting the documents themselves from attackers (e.g., the companies, criminals and political figures they implicated), and, finally (4) keeping the investigation itself a secret for over a year. Remarkably, all of this was achieved while supporting the collaborative analysis of the documents by nearly 400 journalist-contributors worldwide, who communicated regularly across time zones and language barriers.In the computer security literature and beyond, users are often referred to as "the weakest link" in security systems (e.g., [26,48,50]). For example, we were surprised to learn that project leaders were able to consistently enforce strict security requirements-such as two-factor authentication and the use of PGP-despite the fact that few of the participants had previously used these technologies. Our findings suggest that journalists found the collaboration systems provided so useful that they relied on them in spite of sometimes onerous security requirements. Moreover, this organizational buy-in for security measures went beyond rhetoric: in one instance, the organization bought and set up phones as second factors for journalists who did not have them.From these and other findings, we distill lessons and recommendations for integrating computer security measures into future socio-technical systems. • We conduct semi-structured, in-depth interviewswith key stakeholders-including editorial and technical staff-involved in designing and implementing the technical systems used in the collaboration. Overall, the Panama Papers project-which required international collaboration among hundreds of journalists over an entire year-is a unique case study that provides insight into the design and deployment of secure communication and collaboration systems for diverse, distributed organizations. Though this paper is neither a comprehensive description of the technical features of the Panama Papers' systems, nor a prescription for technical security best practices, we believe the insights presented heretaken in conjunction with existing technical security best practices-provide a valuable foundation for secure collaborative system design. While just one staffer was devoted to research during ICIJ's first major leak project in 2011, by 2016, data and research positions comprised half of ICIJ's 12-person staff.To deal with the enormous scale and complexity of the data, as well as facilitate the large, globally distributed team required to investigate it, ICIJ's Data and Research Unit built and/or refined several systems whose development had begun during prior document-based projects. ICIJ also developed a secure communication hubcalled Global I-Hub-by customizing OxWall [5], an existing open-source messaging platform ( Figure 2). To better understand the decisions that shaped the Panama Papers' suite of collaboration systems-as well as identify factors that may have contributed to the successful maintenance of the group's security goals-we conducted two studies: an analysis of survey data collected from Panama Papers project contributors by the ICIJ, and a semi-structured, in-depth interview with each member of the ICIJ staff who had significant influence over the security features and policies related to the Blacklight, I-Hub and Linkurious systems. All survey participants are investigative journalists who actively participated in the Panama Papers project. To maximize the insight gained from these interviews, we designed the interview script using information from a careful review of public information available about the systems (e.g., [10,36]), as well as insight from an IRB-approved background (pilot) interview with an individual member of the Panama Papers project who had intimate knowledge of the systems involved. The survey was created by ICIJ to investigate collaborating journalists' use of the Blacklight, I-Hub, and Linkurious systems used during the Panama Papers project, as well as their experiences with the security of these systems. Topics for both groups included questions about the participants' background, their experience with the overall system, system functionality, any training they offered as part of the project, any breaches or failures they were aware of, and the potential scalability of the system. Participants completed the survey via a Google form and took around 10 minutes to complete. Furthermore, because of the sensitive nature of our interview topic, we took extra precautions to maintain the privacy and anonymity of research participants. We explicitly did not request information about or publish details about security protocols that could compromise source identities, sensitive information, or future work.All interview participants agreed to be audio recorded during the interview and answered all of the questions in the interview script. Apart from de-identification, the survey data analyzed below is a summary of the un-redacted responses (n=118) and comments (n=57) from the 118 journalist contributors who completed the ICIJ survey. To evaluate the significance of the Panama Papers project as a "security success story," we analyzed survey results to determine whether prior security expertise of the journalist contributors may have been a factor.In fact, in response to a question about prior familiarity with digital security practices (see Table 1), almost half of participants indicated that they were "Unaware" of or had "Never" used PGP or two-factor authentication prior to this project (47% and 45% respectively). Despite relatively limited prior exposure to some of these security practices, however, participants reported that they perceived it to be relatively easy to comply with these requirements.On a seven-point scale from 1 ("Super easy") to 7 ("Extremely Hard"), participants' overall mean rating was 3.13 (see Table 2), with the majority (63%) rating 1 15% 2 31% 3 17% 4 14% 5 13% 6 7% Extremely Hard 7 3% Table 2: Perceived Difficulty of Security Compliance (N=118). As one participant put it:I am kind of technologically challenged, so the fact that I was able to navigate these security features means it was probably as simple as it could be while still being effective. Though less than half of participants (43%) reported that the training was essential, almost all participants (95%) rated the training as at least "useful." The majority of respondents (64%) indicated that they used Blacklight-the document-search platform where contributing journalists could access the leaked documents-at least daily during the three months prior to the project launch date in April 2016. These circumstances therefore also gave rise to specific technical security requirements for inter-organizational collaboration.Survey participants were asked to rate how much they collaborated outside of their own organization on a scale of 1 -7 (where 1 indicated "I worked independently" and 7 indicated "I've collaborated more than ever"). However, another participant noted that while security was a barrier, it was worth the slow-down:It's always a pain and even slowed us down. (J78)Finally, others explicitly called-out the need for security and even praised ICIJ's focus on it:I like the fact that ICIJ considers security as a priority. Because the documents at the center of the Panama Papers project related largely to tax evasion, government actors-who could expect to recoup lost revenue through their exposure-were explicitly not considered to be part of the threat model for the project. Given the size and resources of ICIJ, the primary security goals prior to publication therefore centered on protecting the source of the documents, maintaining the secrecy of the project, and maintaining the availability of the Blacklight, I-Hub, and Linkurious systems.While our research participants only explicitly mentioned DDoS attacks and inadvertent project exposure as risks, training documents provided by participants indicate a range of security concerns, such as: spyware/malware, network monitoring, weak passwords/password reuse, physical interception of data (via locally-stored, unencrypted data or printouts) and legal attacks via third-parties. For example, a training document explicitly warned contributors against using thirdparty applications to translate, OCR or visualize the Panama Papers data, and encouraged storing local data from the project only in encrypted, hidden volumes.These concerns informed the system design in myriad ways. First, both the sheer volume of the data-and the goal of protecting its source-led in part to the decision to use a centralized, remotely-accessible method of sharing the documents, rather than providing contributors with individual hard drives, as ICIJ had done in previous projects. (E2) Indeed, explicitly cultivating collaboration was a key design goal of I-Hub in particular, and it seemed to work:You cannot collaborate on email, or encrypted email, or Signal. You need a real space that feels comfortable and friendly and it's colorful, and [I-Hub] was. Since any member of the collaboration is a potential "weakest link", we examine how these collaborators were chosen.While ICIJ explicitly sought project contributors based in as wide a range of countries as possible, the core group of journalists (which numbered approximately 100 as of September 2015 and grew to nearly 400 by project launch in April 2016) were all existing ICIJ members.Interestingly, members who brought in non-member colleagues were considered responsible for disseminating and enforcing security protocols set by ICIJ:We would reach out to our member and trusted person... then the trusted journalist talks to a very small group of people in his own media organization... And then, if they get assigned to do the story, then we would train them, we would give them access to platforms... It's up to the trusted member and reporter to enforce all the rules and regulations with any person that that reporter bring on board. Key security aspects of all systems includes careful vetting of the source documents (including scanning them for known malware), deploying welltested HTTPS, and requiring two-factor authentication for each of the three core systems.The team experimented with multiple versions of twofactor authentication, including virtual machines (discarded as too complex) and browser extensions (discarded as insufficiently secure). Yet we note that the security culture among these journalists was strong enough by this point that they were willing to tolerate several months of reduced functionality for security purposes.Achieving these secure defaults, however, was not the result of voluntary collective action: at some point, ICIJ mandated that all contributors create and use a PGP key:It was not a choice... If somebody did not get themselves a PGP, he did not get access to the forum and to the I-Hub. As one core editorial affiliate put it:We had a rule in our team that whatever is about the Panama Papers-and if it's only about, I don't know, "Let's meet at nine, okay?" Moreover, they highlighted that security mandates from ICIJ were counterbalanced by increasing user investment in the systems, supported in part by open feedback channels and the addition of user-requested features: I said, "If you have any suggestions or any questions regarding the platforms, email me." For example, the user-suggested functionality of "batch search" was mentioned by four out five interview participants as one of the most valuable features of the ICIJ technologists also considered using CryptDB [3,49], to encrypt the source documents while keeping them searchable. Our interviewees knew of no system breaches that took place during the course of the Panama Papers 26th USENIX Security Symposium 513project. Prior to launch, there was only one occasion when system monitoring suggested a possible attack:We had to ask one of our partners to bring his computer because we were detecting some weird requests to our systems. Though ICIJ and its collaborators were able to maintain the project's security goals, our study suggests several potential technical security limitations in their approaches.For example, while ICIJ focused heavily on preventative security measures (e.g., ensuring encrypted communications), systematic approaches to dealing with potential security incidents seemed limited. While ICIJ was in a position to mandate security measures around communications, their influence on endpoint and operational security was limited to occasional training opportunities and "best practices" documents shared with contributors that addressed password management, third-party tool use, use of new/unfamiliar networks and basic threat modeling. To achieve their security goals, they relied on established security mechanisms such as PGP and two-factor authentication, as well as less systematized security practices like a social-network approach to adding members.Overall, our survey results suggest that participants felt that complying with the security requirements of these systems was relatively easy, in spite of the fact that a large proportion of them had never used security technologies including two-factor authentication and PGP prior to the project. Our interviews, meanwhile, offer insight into both the core system requirements of the Panama Papers project, as well as the specific ways-such as strong HTTPS, two-factor authentication, a PGP/encrypted email default, and centralized control of the documents-the project's security goals were met. (IT2)Our findings here align with research from management science, such as the Technology Acceptance Model [15,56,57], which argues that successful technology adoption in organizations depends not on mandated compliance, but rather on (1) usefulness and (2) ease of use. For example:In this project we just routinely encrypted everything we wrote... Because we were just used to doing it and that helped us a lot as a team, that we understood that it's not such a big thing, it's not such a pain in the ass-but you're always on the safe side of it. (E1) System designers, meanwhile, were conscious of users' primary task objectives and strove to minimize the friction of security security processes:It had to be as secure as possible, and still allow working with it without doing a three-day procedure to get into the I-Hub. This gave the ICIJ team confidence that the systems honored both their needs and values as an organization, and those of the journalist-contributors:It's great, it's just software that is designed for journalists. . . and that's all we care about. (E1)For example, while there were initial questions about using cloud hosting, Amazon Cloud Services' contract promises to inform customers of government access requests, allaying some fears:Amazon has quite a good reputation when it comes to ensuring the confidentiality of the customers...Their policy is to inform organizations if a state agency has requested a form or information from them. Strong trust and social relationships were integral to the Panama Papers' collaboration from the start: the initial group of contributers were all ICIJ members, and becoming a member requires the explicit support of multiple existing members.In addition to leveraging their strong ties with existing members, actively cultivating a collaborative, trust-based ecosystem among the non-ICIJ journalists helped security practices permeate the otherwise disparate and physically disconnected group. Our findings suggest that these factors all played in a role in the security success of the Panama Papers project.Sustained emphasis on security. Project leads at ICIJ also clearly and frequently communicated the importance of security and what was at stake:In every editorial note I would write, I would remind [contributors] about some security measure, how it takes one of us to make a mistake for the whole thing to basically fall to hell, and you would lose an entire year of work, and we would be-a joke basically. A key success factor was the ICIJ's willingness to commit resources to developing useful and secure systems: For the computer security research community, this case study represent a rare example of security success, achieved despite many complicating factors. While the systems used in the Panama Papers project are not appropriate for every project, organization, or security scenario, we believe this example offers important insights for those wishing to design similarly effective systems, especially from a human-centered perspective.Lessons for Journalistic Collaborations. Similarly, insufficient attention by system and security experts to the specific work needs and task priorities of users may lead to brittle systems: tools and protocols that do not offer multiple methods for meeting a particular security requirement (e.g. textbased communication), may lead users to rely on insecure workarounds to meet their needs. This affirms prior work (e.g., [48,55]) suggesting that ongoing attention to both security and primary work objectives by organizational leaders and security experts is key to creating and maintaining secure collaborative systems.Opportunities for Future Work. Indeed, we highlighted several technical limitations of the system and encourage readers to treat this case study as a potential starting point from which to incorporate other technical security best practices (e.g., mechanisms for detecting compromise or strengthening endpoint security). These works identified computer security challenges due to, e.g., the fragility of journalists' relationships with their sources, as well as the limited resources available within journalistic organizations.Like NGOs and activist groups, journalists' work makes them high-value targets for cyberattack and surveillance (e.g., [20]). Pfleeger et al. [48] discuss the rollout of security mandates in the context of employees' mental workload and interaction with their primary task flow, All of these factors from prior work-peer trust relationships, organizational security culture and norms, and integration with primary tasks-are echoed in our findings.Other fields, including managerial and behavioral studies as well as social psychology and sensemaking, also consider the role of employee-culture in general managerial compliance. As technology has enabled geographically distributed teamwork, top-down management has given way to decentralization and flat hierarchies [14] This change has security implications: top-down enforcement has been shown to be less effective than socially embedded, trustbased cultural compliance [37]. In this paper, we have explored a security success story: the case of the year-long Panama Papers project collaboration among hundreds of journalists around the world. We found that users will accept strict security requirements in order to use tools critical to their core (nonsecurity) efforts; that a strategy of reducing security decisions by making secure behavior the default and providing secure alternatives for functionality not directly supported may discourage insecure "workaround" behaviors; that leveraging peer relationships can help foster a collaborative culture with a shared sense of security responsibility; and that inviting-and engaging-input from users helps establish a sense of reciprocity that facilitates their adoption of security mandates. Finally, we thank our anonymous reviewers and our shepherd, Adrienne Porter Felt, for valuable feedback on an earlier version. This work is supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Awards CNS-1513575, CNS-1513875, and CNS-1513663. Thanks for helping us to improve global collaboration in journalism! [short answer] B Appendix: Interview InstrumentsThis appendix contains our interview script for ICIJ editorial personnel and for ICIJ technical staff. In your own words, you could describe each of these systems, both in terms of their functionality and how they were implemented? For editorial staff only: Were users allowed to upload files to either system? Was it difficult to adapt or secure for use on this project? To what extent was keeping the online location (i.e. URL) of the project an important security concern? Without revealing specifics that could compromise continued use of the system, can you share a general sense of what kind of security incidents happened during the project, and how they were handled?Scaling and Future Development 1. Is there anything else about this project that you'd like to tell us or think we should know? SM recruited participants, collected all data, and coordinated the writing and editing process. Thanks for helping us to improve global collaboration in journalism! Do you feel that you would use -or encourage others to use -this type of system for collaborative investigative projects in the future?